Skip to main content
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "The Power Of Focusing Ann Weiser Cornell"
See other formats
A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO 
EMOTIONAL SELF-HEALING 

Ann Weiser CornelI, Ph.D. 






This book made available by the Internet Archive. 



THE POWER OF FOCUSING 

Ann Weiser Cornell, Ph D. 

Focusing means listening to the 
wisdom of the body. 

People are increasingly realizing that 
we can consult our bodies about what 
is right for us to eat and how much 
exercise we need. Many people now 
understand that our bodies "know" what 
good health is, and that our bodies can 
show us how to find our way to optimum 
physical health if we so desire. But to 
see the scope of the body's wisdom as 
only physical is to take much too narrow 
a view. There is much more. 

Our bodies are wise in ways hardly 
ever acknowledged by our culture. Our 
bodies carry knowledge about how we 
are living our lives, what we need, what 
we value and believe, and what has hurt 
us emotionally and how to heal it. Our 
bodies know which people around us 
bring out the best in us, and which 
people deplete and diminish us. Our 
bodies know the right next step to bring 
us more fulfilling and rewarding lives. 

Focusing is the way in to this knowledge 
and this exciting potential for change. 
Focusing lets you form a trusting relation¬ 
ship with your body. Focusing lets you 
listen to the whispers of your body 
before it has to shout. Focusing is the 
key to changing your life in a way that 
satisfies your inner sense of rightness. 


Continued on bock Rap 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2012 


http://archive.org/details/poweroffocusingOOannw 



"Most people make life's important decisions by using their intellect. 
They think and become logical. Thus their path in life becomes 
path-o-bgical 

As a physician, I know how important our feelings are. We store 
a lifetime of feelings in our bodies. If not felt and responded to, they 
lead to disease—once again, a state of pathology 

Learn to focus, and let the wisdom of your body teach you what 
it feels like to be happy The wisdom of this book can help you heal 
the pathology. 

This book is an excellent resource for healing your life and body 
while guiding you to your life's true path." 

—Bemie Siegel, M.D., author of Love, Medicine, and 
Miracles; Peace. Love, and Healing; and How to Live 
Betzceen Office Visits 


"1 have included Ann Weiser Cornell's Focusing work in Intuitive 
Training classes with excellent results I see the Focusing technique as 
an invaluable tool for students of the inner life, particularly 
psychic-intuitive training." 

—Helen Palmer, author of The Enneagram 










THE POWER OF FOCUSING 

Ann Weiser Cornell, Ph.D. 


MJF BOOKS 

NEW YORK 





Publisher's Note This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative 
information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that 
the publisher is not engaged in rendering psychological, financial, legal, or other 
professional services. If expert assistance or counseling is needed, the services of a 
competent professional should be sought 

Published by MJF Books 
Fine Communications 
Two Lincoln Square 
60 West 66th Street 
New York. NY 10023 

The Power of Focusing 

Library of Congress Catalog Card #98-67591 

ISBN 1-56731-297-7 

Copyright © 1996 by Ann Wciscr Cornell 

This edition published by arrangement with New Harbinger Publications. Inc. 

Text Design by Tracy Marie Powell 

All rights reserved. No port of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any 
form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopy, recording, or any 
information storage and retrieval sy stem, w ithout the prior written permission of the 
publisher 

Manufactured in the United States of America on acid-free paper 

MJF Books and the MJF colophon arc trademarks of Fine Creative Media. Inc. 

10 98765 43 2 






for Bryan, who does want to know 



Contents 



Preface 

vii 

1 

What b Focusing? 

1 

2 

A Focusing Process 

11 

3 

Focusing in Safety and Trust 

15 

4 

Let's Begin Focusing 

25 

5 

Deeper into Focusing 

35 

6 

Receiving the Gifts 

45 

7 

Specific Uses of Focusing 

51 

8 

Troubleshooting 

63 

9 

Focusing with a Friend 

77 

10 

Especially for Therapists 

89 

11 

If You're in Therapy 

105 


Resources 

111 



Preface 


I first encountered Focusing in 1972, when I was a graduate student in 
linguistics at the University of Chicago. A sudden and painful breakup 
with a boyfriend a few months before had made me realize that there was 
a great deal going on inside of me beneath my conscious awareness, and I 
resolved to find a way to get to know that deeper me. 

Friends told me that a man named Gene Gendlin was teaching something 
called Focusing on Sunday nights in a community center. I went to one of 
the meetings, and I was both fascinated and frustrated. Fascinated 
because I knew this was just what I was looking for: a simple and 
powerful way to get to know what I really felt and wanted. Frustrated 
because it was hard for me to learn. I didn't understand what I was being 
asked to do, and when I tried to do what I thought they were teaching, 
nothing happened. 

Eventually, with the help of patient friends, I did learn Focusing, and it 
became my companion through many life changes. In 1980, after I left 
linguistics teaching and was searching for another career. Gene Gendlin 
invited me to teach Focusing with him. In 1983, after assisting Gene in 
many workshops in Chicago, I moved to California and began teaching 
Focusing on my own. 

I never forgot the difficulties I had had learning Focusing, and I resolved 
to find ways to improve the teaching of Focusing so anyone could learn it. 
My background in linguistics made me especially sensitive to language, 
and I realized that the precise language used in Focusing teaching can 
help or hinder the process enormously I wrote two manuals, one for 
Focusing students and one for Focusing guides, so that other teachers 
could make use of these insights as well. 

At the end of 1994 two things happened. First, I made another 
breakthrough in teaching, with the inspiration of Carol Beilin and Carol 
LaDue, and found a way of presenting Focusing that was even more 
successful. Second, New Harbinger asked me to write this book. The first 
half of 1995 was a richly creative time, as I tested the new language of 



teaching I had discovered during workshops in California, Australia, and 
Maryland—and wrote. The teaching flowed, and so did the writing. This 
book now stands as my new Focusing manual, built on the experience of 
teaching hundreds of Focusing workshops over fifteen years. 

I love Focusing. It is a beautiful, subtle, rich, empowering process which 
is now woven into the fabric of my life. I can hardly say that I do 
Focusing; it is more that I live Focusing. The gifts that it has brought me 
include a spiritual opening that I never expected. 

I'm convinced that the times we live in require each of us to be fully and 
courageously who we are. Focusing is the fastest way I know to get to the 
truth of ourselves and to live it. Teaching Focusing is more than a 
profession for me; it is a passion. If I can help you further in your journey 
with Focusing, please write to me; my address and phone and fax 
numbers are at the back of this book. 

No book is the work of only one person. I'd especially like to thank 
Barbara McGavin, who spent days reading and responding to early drafts; 
many of her words found their way into the final book. Barbara's 
brilliance and her dedication to excellent Focusing teaching are gifts to us 
all. 

I'd like to thank Gene Gendlin, my teacher, without whom we would not 
have been able to see and understand what Focusing is, much less how to 
teach it. 

I'd like to thank Neil Friedman, a therapist who has written much about 
Focusing, and who in his own way was the angel who made this book 
possible. 

I'd like to appreciate my other colleagues and teachers who were part of 
the development of Focusing to the point where it could be written about 
this way: Carol Beilin, Reva Bernstein, Les Brunswick, Lakme Elior, Elfie 
Hinterkopf, Bebe Simon, and many more. 

For reading drafts of this book and making useful suggestions, rd like to 
thank: Helene G. Brenner, Marilyn Skelton Jellison, Larry Letich, Judy 
Levy, Judith Ann Perlin, Roger Pritchard, Bebe Simon, Martha Sloss, and 
John Swinburne. 



rd like to thank the dear friends who let me write in their homes and be 
part of their families while I was traveling, especially Se-bastiaan and 
Kate, and Larry and Helene. 

More than I can say, I appreciate all my students who let me test this 
material on them and who taught me so much. 

And a special thanks to the fine people at New Harbinger who are too 
good to be mere publishers; they must be angels in disguise 



Chapter One - What Is 
Focusing? 

Whenever Jenny needed to speak up about herself, she got a choking 
sensation in her throat. The more important the situation was to her, the 
stronger she felt the choking. Job interviews and class presentations were 
painful, nearly impossible. She had been to many therapists and tried 
many techniques to try to get rid of this choking sensation, without 
results. She diagnosed herself as "self-defeating, masochistic, always 
sabotaging myself." 

Then Jenny heard about Focusing. She heard that Focusing is a way of 
listening to your body with compassion, without assumptions. She heard 
that many people experience profound and lasting change from this kind 
of inner listening. She was doubtful. It sounded too simple! But she was 
willing to give it a try, because she was desperate for something to work. 

One thing that intrigued Jenny was that Focusing is a skill, not a 
therapeutic technique. Although many therapists incorporate Focusing in 
their work, Jenny would be able to learn Focusing without going to a 
therapist. She liked the idea of learning a skill that she would be able to 
use, not only for the choking sensation but for any issue in her life, on her 
own, without needing to pay someone. 

When Jenny came in for her Focusing lesson and told me her situation, I 
had a strong feeling that Focusing could help her. I've taught Focusing to 
many hundreds of people over the years, and Jenny's circumstance was 
classic. Her body was already speaking to her. She just needed to learn 
how to hear its message. 

I asked Jenny if she was feeling the choking at that very moment. 

"Yes. I can feel it. It's here now because I'm learning a new technique with 
you, and I feel I have to do well." 


I asked her to describe what it felt like. She looked a little surprised, and 



said, "Choking, of course!" I asked her to go back to the sensation and 
check the word "choking" to make sure that word was the right word for 
how it felt. 

She looked thoughtful. "Actually," she said slowly, "it's more like a hand 
squeezing." 

Now Jenny's eyes were closed and she was concentrating inwardly. I 
asked her to gently say hello to the hand squeezing sensation. "Just say to 
it, 'Yes, I know you're there.'" 

This was a completely new attitude for her. "I've never sort of looked it in 
the eye before; I've just tried to get rid of it." So this new attitude took a 
while to find, but when she did, there was a definite sense of bodily relief: 
"It's still there, but it's not painful anymore. It's almost like, now that it 
has my attention, it doesn't need to hurt me." 

Then I asked Jenny to imagine that she was sitting down with the 
sensation as she would sit with a friend, compassionate and curious 
about how the friend was feeling. 

Jenny was silent for several minutes, eyes closed, sensing. Then her eyes 
opened in astonishment. "Wow. I never dreamed it would say something 
like that. That's really amazing." 

I waited, knowing that she would tell me the rest in her own time. 

In a moment she spoke again. "It says ... it says it cares about me! It says 
it's just trying to keep me from making mistakes!" 

"And how does it feel now?" I asked. 

"The choking or squeezing is completely gone. My throat feels open and 
relaxed. There's a good warm feeling spreading all through my body. This 
is really amazing. I never thought it would change like this!" 

What is Focusing? 

Focusing is a body-oriented process of self-awareness and emotional 
healing. It's as simple as noticing how you feel—and then having a 



conversation with your feelings in which you do most of the listening. 
Focusing starts with the familiar experience of feeling something in your 
body that is about what is going on in your life. When you feel jittery in 
your stomach as you stand up to speak, or when you feel tightness in your 
chest as you anticipate making a crucial phone call, you are experiencing 
what we call a "felt sense"—a body sensation that is meaningful. 

So what do you do when you have a jittery feeling or a tightness or a 
choking sensation in your throat? If you're like most of us, you try to get 
rid of it. Maybe you curse it a little: "Why does this stupid feeling have to 
come now, just when I need to be my best?" Or maybe you put yourself 
down: "If I were a better person, I wouldn't freeze up this way." Maybe 
you do deep breathing exercises, or have a drink or a cigarette. 

What doesn't occur to you, unless you know Focusing, is to listen to the 
feeling, to let it speak to you. 

And yet, when you let the feeling speak to you, you are allowing yourself 
to be open to the depth and richness of your whole self. Furthermore, 
when you listen to the feeling, it is much more likely to relax, release, and 
let you go on with what you're doing in a clear and centered way. You 
might even move forward in this area of your life in ways that surprise 
and delight you. 

Focusing is the process of listening to your body in a gentle, accepting 
way and hearing the messages that your inner self is sending you. It's a 
process of honoring the wisdom that you have inside you, becoming 
aware of the subtle level of knowing that speaks to you through your 
body. 

The results of listening to your body are insight, physical release, and 
positive life change. You understand yourself better, you feel better, and 
you act in ways that are more likely to create the life you want. 

The discovery of Focusing 

In the early 1960s, Professor Eugene Gendlin at the University of Chicago 
began research into the question: "Why is psychotherapy helpful for some 
people, but not others?" He and his colleagues studied tapes of hundreds 
of therapy sessions. They taped the entire course of therapy, from the first 



session to the last, with many different therapists and clients. Then they 
asked both the therapists and the dients to rate whether the therapy had 
been successful, and they also used psychological tests to determine if 
there had been positive change. If all three agreed—therapist, client, and 
independent test—then that course of therapy was used in the study The 
result was two groups of tapes: successful versus unsuccessful 
psychotherapy 

The researchers then compared the tapes to see if they could determine 
what made the difference between success and failure. They first listened 
to the therapists on the tapes. Common sense suggested that there would 
be something about the therapist's behavior that would determine 
whether therapy was successful or not. Surely the therapists in the 
successful therapy were somehow more em-pathic, or more genuine, or 
more accepting, or more brilliant.... But in fact there was no significant 
difference in therapist behavior. In both sets of tapes, the therapists were 
essentially the same. The therapists were doing their best—and some 
clients were getting better, while others were not. 

Then the researchers listened to the clients on the tapes, and that is when 
they made a fascinating and important discovery: there was a difference 
between the successful therapy clients and the unsuccessful ones. And it 
was a difference that could be heard in the first or second session—in the 
clients. Whatever this was, it wasn't something that the successful clients 
learned how to do because of the therapy; it was something they were 
already doing, able to do, when they walked in the door. 

Gendlin and the other researchers found, to their surprise, that they 
could predict success in therapy by listening to the tapes of anyone's first 
two therapy sessions. Listening to the client, they could actually tell 
whether or not the therapy would be ultimately successful! 

So what was this? What was it that the researchers could hear on the 
tapes, that allowed them to predict whether the therapy would be 
successful? 

What they heard was this: at some point in the session, the successful 
therapy clients would slow down their talk, become less articulate, and 
begin to grope for words to describe something that they were feeling at 



that moment. If you listened to the tapes, you would hear something like 
this: "Hmmm. How would I describe this? It's right here. It's ... uh ... it's . 
.. it's not exactly anger ... hmmm." Often the clients would mention that 
they experienced this feeling in their bodies, saying things like, "It's right 
here in my chest," or "I have this funny feeling in my stomach." 

So the successful therapy clients had a vague, hard-to-describe body 
awareness that they were directly sensing during the session. By contrast, 
the unsuccessful therapy clients stayed articulate through the whole 
session! They stayed "up in their heads." They didn't sense in their 
bodies, and they never directly felt something that at first was hard to 
describe. No matter how much they analyzed their problems, or 
explained them, or thought about them, or cried about them, their 
therapy was ultimately unsuccessful. 

Eugene Gendlin determined to find out how to teach the skill that made 
all the difference between successful and unsuccessful therapy. As a 
therapist himself, he didn't want to merely sit back and watch as some of 
his clients got better and others did not. He wanted to help everyone. 

Gendlin did find a way to teach this powerful and effective skill of 
emotional healing, and he called it "Focusing." At first he thought 
Focusing would only be useful to improve psychotherapy. But then 
people started asking him to teach them Focusing for other purposes: as a 
self-help skill to use instead of therapy, to make decisions, to help with 
creative projects. In 1978 he published a book called Focusing which sold 
hundreds of thousands of copies. The interest in Focusing was so great 
that Gendlin started offering workshops and started the Focusing 
Institute to support the growing worldwide network of people using 
Focusing. (See the "Resources" section at the back of this book for more 
information about how you can connect with this network.) 

Focusing is a natural skill that was discovered, not invented. It was 
discovered by looking at what people are doing when they are changing 
successfully. Focusing ability is the birthright of every person: we were all 
born with the ability to know how we feel from moment to moment. But 
for most of us, the experiences of hurt and alienation in our childhood 
and from our culture have caused us to lose trust in our bodies and our 
feelings. We need to re-learn Focusing. 



Who benefits from Focusing? 


Focusing is a very broad-purpose skill. It isn't intended for one single 
purpose, but for many. The wonderful thing is that you can learn 

Focusing and then use it whenever you need it for the rest of your life. 
Jenny's story, told at the beginning of the book, is an example of how to 
use Focusing to understand and change an intrusive body signal, such as 
a choking sensation. Here are some of the other ways you might benefit 
from Focusing. 

If you feel stuck in your therapy 

Often people who are in psychotherapy but feel stuck decide to learn 
Focusing in order to get their therapy moving again. They feel their 
therapy progressed for a while, but then bogged down somehow. "\ keep 
saying the same things, getting the same insights," one woman reported. 
"\ know there's something I'm not getting to, but I don't know what." 

Some therapists incorporate Focusing techniques in their therapy. Others 
recommend their clients learn Focusing and practice it between sessions. 
If you're in therapy now and you would like your therapist to use 
Focusing, see Chapter Eleven, "If You're in Therapy." 

If you’d like to know better what you feel and want 

Many people are not in touch with their feelings and their wants. Often 
men are trained to ignore and set aside feelings, especially "weaker" and 
more tender feelings like fear and sadness. "People ask me how I feel and 
I draw a blank. It's like there's nothing there." Often women are trained 
to defer to others, to set their own feelings aside and put others' feelings 
first. As a consequence, we don't even know what we feel and want. We're 
cut off from our bodies, from the source of knowing how we feel. 

Focusing brings us back into our bodies and back into contact with what 
is real for us, our feelings, wants, and needs. 

If you d like a way to handle overwhelming emotions 

Strong feelings like sadness, fear, or anger can sometimes feel 
overwhelming. They can wash over us like ocean waves, shake us like a 



windstorm, and we can feel helpless next to their power. But these 
emotions are strong for a reason. They have an important story to tell; 
they are bringing back an important piece of our wholeness. Focusing lets 
you hear the story and receive the gifts from these strong emotions 
without getting overwhelmed. With Focusing you learn how to have a 
comfortable relationship with strong feelings, how to acknowledge them 
and listen to them, instead of being drowned by them. 

If you d like to release action blocks or addictions 

An action block is any place in your life where you want to do something 
but you don't. The most common action blocks are organization blocks 
(like never getting your desk organized) and writer's block. 
Procrastination is the all-purpose block. If you can fill in the blank in this 
sentence: "I want to , but I don't," then you have an action block. 

Addictions work like action blocks in reverse. With an addiction, the 
sentence is, "I want to stop , but I don't." 

Focusing helps you release action blocks or addictions by enabling you to 
listen compassionately to the part of you that is responsible for the block 
or addiction, and gain its cooperation. 

If you'd like to release self-criticism and increase self-love and acceptance 

"You've failed again. You'll always fail. You might as well give up now." 

"There's something profoundly wrong with you. You're flawed in a way 
that can never be fixed." 

"You're weird. You'd better not let anyone see how weird you are—they 
won't want to be friends with you." 

Who is saying these terrible things to you? If you're like most of us, you 
say them to yourself. We are typically more harsh and cruel to ourselves 
than we are to anyone else. Focusing has powerful tools for releasing you 
from self-criticism and other forms of inner sabotage. You'll learn to turn 
your inner Critic into an ally and supporter, and you'll grow in love and 
acceptance for all parts of yourself. This self-acceptance in turn allows 
deeper and faster change in the areas of your life that need to change. 



If you d like to make clear and centered decisions 


Everyone needs to make decisions, every day. Some are small, such as 
"What shall I have for dinner?" Some are large, such as "What will I do 
with the rest of my life?" If decision making isn't easy for you, every day 
can be a minefield. Confusion, self-doubt, and anxiety are a few of the 
companions of a difficult decision-making process. 

"I want to learn Focusing," one man told me, "because I realize that my 
decision making always falls back on what I should do, according to other 
people, or society And I don't want that." 

The classical way of making a decision is to draw a line down the middle 
of a sheet of paper and list all the "pros" on one side, all the "cons" on the 
other Have you ever done that and found yourself at the end as undecided 
as ever? The difficulty is that this is a purely logical way of decision 
making, and logic uses only one part of us. We need to make decisions, 
especially important ones, from our whole self. Focusing is a great tool 
for decision making because it helps you sense the rightness of the choice 
you are making, at a level beyond logical analysis. You will be able to 
make a choice that is right for you holistically, that is, taking in and 
integrating all factors at once. 

The wisdom of the body 

It is becoming common knowledge that we can consult our bodies about 
what is right for us to eat and how much exercise we need. Many people 
now understand that our bodies "know" what good health is, and that our 
bodies can show us how to find our way to optimum physical health if we 
so desire. But to see the scope of the body's wisdom as only physical is to 
take much too narrow a view. There is much more. 

The truth is that our bodies are wise in many ways hardly ever 
acknowledged by our culture. Our bodies carry knowledge about how we 
are living our lives, about what we need to be more fully ourselves, about 
what we value and believe, about what has hurt us emotionally and how 
to heal it. Our bodies know which people around us are the ones who 
bring out the best in us, and which people deplete and diminish us. Our 
bodies know what is the right next step to bring us to more fulfilling and 



rewarding lives. 


Our minds alone do not know these things. Our minds can remember the 
past, repeat what others have told us, and invent any number of possible 
futures to be either wishful or anxious about. But the past and the future, 
the primary domains of the mind, are not the place where change can 
happen. Change happens in the present. The gift of the body is that it is 
always in present time, always here. To move into the part of you that has 
the power to transform your life, all you need to do is to bring your 
awareness to your body. 

Focusing is the way in to this vast realm of knowledge and this exciting 
potential for change. Focusing lets you form a trusting relationship with 
your body so you can begin to hear the wisdom of this vast part of 
yourself that is accessible through body awareness. Focusing lets you 
listen to the whispers of your body before it has to shout. Focusing is the 
key to changing your life in a way that satisfies your inner sense of 
rightness. 

In the next chapter, we'd like to give you a "tour" of the Focusing process, 
so you'll get an impression of what it's like to do Focusing. In Chapter 
Three, we'll set the stage for your own Focusing by showing you how to 
create an inner climate of safety and trust. In Chapters Four and Five, 
we'll show you how to do Focusing yourself. In Chapter Six, we show you 
how to receive the gifts—the positive feelings—that result from Focusing. 
Chapter Seven contains a number of stories about people using Focusing 
for particular purposes, such as making decisions, or handling 
overwhelming feelings. In Chapter Eight, we'll do "troubleshooting," and 
help you with some of the most typical problems and questions. Chapters 
Nine, Ten, and Eleven are about Focusing with a friend, with your clients 
if you're a therapist, and with your therapist if you're a therapy client. 



Chapter Two - A Focusing 

Process 


To give you a "tour" of the Focusing process, I'd like to tell you the story 
of Ted, and how he used Focusing to find out how he felt. TU point out 
the various Focusing attitudes and skills that Ted is using at different 
stages along the way 

Ted was always frustrated when his wife asked him, "How do you feel?" 
and he had no idea how to answer. His wife was so persistent in wanting 
to know his feelings that he realized he had never known how to answer 
that question. He had never understood how people knew how they were 
feeling. 

"She asks me how I feel and I draw a blank," he told me. "It's like there's 
nothing there." 

So Ted decided to learn Focusing. First he learned to be aware of his 
inner body sensations, especially in his throat, chest, and stomach. This 
was new for him; he had never been encouraged to notice his body. His 
father and older brothers had never talked about feelings. In high school 
and college he had played sports, and it had been better not to pay too 
close attention to the aches and injuries he had. 

So when Ted first tried closing his eyes and sensing in his body, it was 
like going into unfamiliar territory. It took him a while just to get "in 
there." He reminded himself of the last time he had had a cold and 
checked his throat as if seeing if it was still sore. No ... but at least his 
awareness was in his throat. From there, it was fairly easy to also sense in 
his chest and in his stomach. 

Focusing begins with bringing awareness into the body, especially the 
throat, chest, stomach, and abdomen. 

At first Ted felt nothing, and he was discouraged and felt like quitting. 

But then he tried the Focusing question, "What wants my awareness 



now?" and just waited, noticing anything. He realized that his stomach 
felt tightly clenched—and that it had probably been feeling that way for a 
long time. He didn't feel nothing, he just felt normal —and normal was 
"clenched." 

We don't try to find a feeling, or try to make something happen, but we 
invite something to be felt by asking a gentle, open question such as 
"What wants my awareness now?" 

Ted stayed with the clenched feeling, acknowledging it. He found that 
when he said hello to it, he felt a slight relief. It was still there, but it 
didn't feel quite so immovable. He tried nanning it, and the word 
"clenched" fit fairly well, well enough for now. 

When we first find a feeling, we acknowledge it by saying an inner hello to 
it, and then we describe or name it. 

Then Ted settled down to get to know the clenched feeling better He 
knew it had been there a long time, and he was genuinely curious and 
interested in what he might learn. This was the first time he had ever 
considered that a feeling like this might have a reason to be there, other 
than just being some flaw in him. 

In the next stage of Focusing, we sit down with the feeling to get to know 
it better, with an attitude of interested curiosity. 

At first the feeling felt like a solid wall, no meaning, a blank. Then he 
began to get the idea that this clenched part of him was scared. He 
checked the word "scared" with the feeling and felt a little extra 
tightening. Yes! "Scared" was right. 

We take time to allow a little more meaning to come from the feeling, 
perhaps a word for an emotional quality. Then we check the word with 
the feeling, to make sure it feels right. 

Ted noticed that his first tendency was to tell his stomach that there was 
no reason to be scared. But he knew that in Focusing you accept that 
there is some good reason for every feeling, even if you don't know what it 
is yet. So he stayed with the clenched, scared feeling. He just breathed for 
a while, letting it be. Then he asked it, "Please tell me, what gets you so 



scared?" 


We are not in a hurry. We create an inner atmosphere of no pressure, just 
being with what's there. We ask gentle questions as a way of inviting the 
feeling to tell us more. 

The answer took a while to feel, but by now Ted was learning patience. He 
began to get the feeling of what an effort this clenched part of him was 
making, to stay hard and tough. "It's scared," he realized, "and it's also 
scared to show that it's scared." As he said this, he felt a relaxing in his 
stomach, as if something inside him was saying, "I'm glad you heard me." 

The relaxing felt good, and Ted was tempted to stop Focusing right there. 
He certainly could have stopped and come back to his body another time. 
But he was still curious, and his stomach was still clenched, just not so 
tightly as before. 

In Focusing, change comes in steps, small (usually) realizations, each one 
of which feels right and makes some difference in the body. After each 
one, we could stop and focus again another time, or we could keep going, 
perhaps with another gentle question. 

He asked the clenched place the question again, as gently as he might 
have asked one of his own kids after a nightmare, "So what is it that's so 
scary for you right now?" He flashed on a memory of his father slumped 
in an armchair, his mother standing in the doorway with an angry look on 
her face. The words came: "I can't fail." 

"I hear you," Ted whispered to his body "You feel like it's not OK to fail." 

In Ted's stomach there came a deep releasing, like something letting go 
with relief. Ted had the experience of exploring a new sensation: a 
completely relaxed stomach for the first time in years! What a gift! 

The meaning that is carried in the body is sometimes connected with a 
memory, a belief or attitude, or an unmet need or an unexpressed part of 
ourselves. There is no need to "fix" or "solve" the problem. 

Acknowledging the message, really hearing it, is all that is needed to 
bring deep relief. 



To complete his Focusing session, Ted took some time to enjoy his new, 
relaxed feeling. He noticed that part of him had a tendency to tighten up 
again, asking, "But how does this solve the problem?" Gently but firmly 
he set this question aside and went back to simply sensing his body He 
asked if this might be a good place to stop Focusing for now, and he got 
the distinct feeling of wanting to sense this relaxed feeling quietly for a 
few more minutes. So he did that. Then he thanked his body, and said 
he'd be back. Slowly, several minutes after he'd first been ready to stop, 
he opened his eyes. 

Ending a Focusing session happens slowly and respectfully. We may want 
to stay for a while with good feelings. We thank the body, and say we'll be 
back. 

Later that day, when Ted was on the phone with a client, he noticed his 
stomach clenching again. After the call ended, he paused a few minutes 
before his next call, and just stayed with the feeling in his stomach. He 
realized that when he had heard an angry and impatient tone in the 
client's voice, it had triggered the place in him that was afraid of failure. 
When he realized that, the clenching released. 

Life circumstances may bring back feelings that were there in the 
Focusing session. This is an opportunity for "mini-Focusing" — a little bit 
of Focusing in the midst of life. 

That evening when Ted saw his wife, she asked him, "How are you 
feeling?" Ted replied, "I'm excited and I'm a little scared, because I'm 
learning something new, and I don't know where it's going to take me." 
After he said it he checked in his body and it was true, he was feeling 
excited and a little scared. Ted's wife was so surprised she was speechless 
— A all she could do was give him a big hug. 



Chapter Three - Focusing in 
Safety and Trust 

Imagine that you are in a meadow, at the edge of a forest. As you stand 
there quietly, you see a shy animal peeking out of the woods. You know 
that this animal is not dangerous to you, nor you to it, and you would like 
to help it feel safe with you. What would you do? What mood would you 
try to create? What would you not do? 

You would not run toward it, shouting. You would be still and patient. If 
you moved, you would move slowly and gently. You would be attentive to 
it, interested in it, watching it carefully for signs that it might be OK for 
you to move a little closer. 

Focusing is a process of listening to something inside you that wants to 
communicate with you. And yet, like a shy animal, it may first need to 
discover that you are trustworthy, and that you have created a safe place 
for it, before it can deliver its message. In this chapter we will talk about 
how to create the climate of safety and trust in your inner world that 
makes Focusing possible. 

Letting it be as it is 

Take a moment to notice what you are feeling right now and see if it is 
possible to simply let the feeling be there. Good, bad, or indifferent; 
angry, sad, or scared; bored, restless, or joyful— A just notice how you are 
right now, and notice if you can say, "Yes, that is how I feel." 

Notice whether it is difficult or unfamiliar to let your feelings be there. 
You may have a tendency, as many people do, to judge your feelings as 
soon as you notice them: "I shouldn't be feeling that way. What a horrible 
person I am to feel that!" You may try to be "reasonable" about your 
feelings: 'There's no reason to be scared." Or you may try to talk yourself 
out of your feelings: "Oh, it's not that bad. Other people have it worse." Or 
you may try to analyze your feelings, asking yourself: "Why? Why do I 
always feel this way? Why can't I change?" 



As you may have noticed, none of these ways is effective in helping you 
change. Every time you judge yourself, or try to talk yourself out of your 
feelings, or try to figure out why you are feeling this way, you just stay in 
the same place, and probably feel even worse about yourself. 

But I can tell you with absolute assurance, for I've seen this hundreds of 
times and never seen it fail: when you allow your feelings to be as they 
are, then they can change. When you try to change them, they stay 
unchanged. Gene Gendlin put it so well: 

What is split off, not felt, remains the same. When it is felt, it changes. 
Most people don't know this. They think that by not permitting the 
feeling of their negative ways they make themselves good. On the 
contrary, that keeps these negatives static, the same from year to year. A 
few moments of feeling it in your body allows it to change. If there is in 
you something bad or sick or unsound, let it inwardly be, and breathe. 
That's the only way it can evolve and change into the form it needs. 

The inner climate of letting it inwardly be is necessary for inner change. 
And this is the good news. You may think that allowing your feelings to be 
will make them bigger, or will give them permission to go out of control. 
You will find that just the opposite is the case. Your feelings get bigger 
and more painful when they aren't allowed to be. When they are allowed 
to be, they settle down to have a conversation with you, and that 
conversation leads to change, as we will see. 

Being in a relationship with your feelings 

Being in a relationship with your inner experience allows you to be with 
your feelings, not in them. Many people think that the only way to change 
strong emotions is to jump right into the nuddle of them, feel them 
intensely, and get through them. When you're reluctant to do that, you 
may call yourself "resistant" and "afraid to change." 

Focusing, however, teaches us that change comes more easily from a 
relationship with your feelings. And you can't have a relationship with 
something if you're up to your neck in it! 

Think of your emotions as a big lake. You have a choice: you can plunge 
into the lake, or you can sit next to it. Focusing works best when you "sit 



next to" what you feel instead of plunging into it. 

When you have a relationship with something, you can sense it as a 
whole. When you're in the middle of it, it's harder to know it— A just as it's 
hard for a fish to know water. When I assisted Gene Gendlin in teaching 
Focusing he would say, "If you want to kii A w what the soup smells like, 
it's better not to stick your head in it." 

When you have a relationship with what's there, you are able to be its 
listener. It is able to tell you its story. If you are it, then there's no one else 
to hear the story. This inner relationship is how you give yourself the 
healing presence that is so powerful and helpful. 

If you find yourself saying, "I am sad," try changing that to "Part of me is 
sad," or "I have a sad feeling," or "I'm aware of something that feels sad." 
Now the sad feeling becomes something you can he with instead of 
feeling all over, because it's part of you, not all of you. 

Being a good listener to your self 

Do you remember a time when someone listened to you, really listened? 
Do you remember how good it felt to be heard? Perhaps you began to 
understand yourself better, and you clarified what you were thinking and 
feeling, simply because someone was listening. 

Perhaps you also remember a time when you wanted to express yourself 
and be heard, but the other person didn't hear you. Instead, perhaps they 
criticized, or told you about their own experience, or offered well- 
meaning advice. Advice isn't listening. If you wanted to be heard and you 
got criticism or advice instead, you probably became more confused or 
frustrated or upset instead of more clear. And you probably felt you 
wouldn't come back to that person again when you needed to be heard. 

Focusing is being a good listener to your inner self. There are parts of you 
that want to be heard, without judgment, without criticism, without 
advice. In Focusing, you can give yourself that non-judgmental listening 
that feels good and brings greater clarity. 


The qualities of good listening are: 



• A welcoming presence 

• Holding the space 

• Hearing the essence 

• Staying in present time. 

A welcoming presence means you are interested in everything you 
become aware of inside. Each feeling you become aware of, no matter 
how ugly or negative it appears at first, has a good reason for being the 
way it is. A welcoming presence gives it the space to be and breathe, 
evolve and transform. 

Holding the space means bringing your awareness to your inner world 
and holding it there. It's as if you're saying to your inner self, "I'm here 
and I'm staying with you." 

Hearing the essence means listening for what is longing to be heard. 
When something first comes forward, its message may be difficult to 
understand. If you keep listening for what "it" wants you to hear, the 
message will become clearer and clearer. 

Staying in present time means not being distracted by dwelling on what 
happened in the past, or on fantasies or fears about the future. It means 
staying in touch with how you're feeling in your body right now, even 
when what you are focusing on is related to the past or the future. 
Whenever you find you have drifted away from the present, ask yourself, 
"How am I feeling in my body right now? What am I aware of right now?" 

Being a friend to your felt sense 

Focusing is like being a friend to your own inner experience. The qualities 
of true friendship include acknowledging, allowing, patience, curiosity, 
respect, warmth, welcome, empathy, compassion, and love. If you don't 
feel you can be that much of a friend to yourself immediately, don't worry 
—you'll be able to build up to it, step by step. And the first step is as 
simple as saying hello. 

When you notice you're having a feeling, say to the feeling, "Hello. I know 
you're there." This might seem ridiculously simple, but it's actually such a 
powerfully helpful move that you'll probably feel relief just from doing 
this alone. It's amazing how often we don't do this. We ignore how we 



feel, we try to get rid of how we feel, we argue with how we feel—but we're 
not actually acknowledging how we feel. We treat our felt senses like 
unwelcome party guests, to be talked about but never directly spoken to. 

If your felt senses are at all scary or intense, saying hello becomes even 
more important. "I feel this constriction in my chest, and it's getting 
tighter and tighter!" said Rebecca. "You might just say hello to it," I 
suggested. "Oh! Now it's easing up quite a bit!" she reported, amazed that 
simply acknowledging could make such a difference. 

The reason that acknowledging is so powerful is that your felt senses are 
here to communicate with you. Excuse me for talking about felt senses as 
if they were people, but the truth is, they want you lo listen. They want to 
be heard. That constriction was probably getting tighter and tighter 
because it was panicked about whether it would be heard. As soon as 
Rebecca acknowledged it, it was able to relax a little, because it knew that 
she knew it was there, and that she would listen to its story. 

I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to say hello to what you 
find in your body. I've seen over and over how people skip over this step 
and find themselves in trouble. For example, Catherine had a tightness in 
her shoulders that she had been feeling for weeks. She wanted to focus on 
it. The people in the workshop watched as she rolled her neck impatiently 
and said, "I want to ask this what it's all about, but it won't talk to me. I 
feel stuck." Then she looked down at the card she had received at the 
beginning of the workshop and saw the sentence, I'm saying hello to 
what's here. "Oh," she said, "I haven't said hello to it yet." 

Then the other workshop participants saw a remarkable transformation. 
Catherine's face flushed, her head stopped rolling, and tears sprang to her 
eyes. "I've never said hello to it!" she exclaimed. "I've called it bad, I've 
tried to get rid of it, I've shamed it, I've tried to fix it—but I've never 
actually said hello." From that moment on the tightness in her shoulders 
began to release and by the end of the session, after it had given its 
message, Catherine experienced her body quite differently. 

Focusing is about having a positive and supportive relationship with 
yourself. Every relationship begins with hello. It isn't respectful to start a 
conversation without first saying hello. So give your felt sense a hello first 



of all, and the rest of your friendship with it will naturally follow. 

When you’re not feeling friendly 

Sometimes you just can't bring yourself to be friendly to your felt sense. 
And that's OK—you can still do Focusing. Just move your awareness to 
the part of you that isn't feeling friendly Say hello to that. The not- 
friendly feeling, whatever it is, becomes the new felt sense. 

Tom was feeling fear in his belly. He recognized it as an old fear, one that 
he had felt many times before. When he asked himself to be "like a 
friend" to this fear, he could feel an angry impatience rising in his body. 
"I'm so sick of always getting scared, right when things are getting good!" 

So Tom said hello to the angry, impatient feeling. This is different from 
staying in the anger and impatience, continuing to be angry and 
impatient. This is more like stepping aside slightly, noticing or 
"witnessing" what is felt. Instead of trying to force himself to be friendly 
to the original feeling, the fear, Tom simply moved his friendly attitude to 
the anger and impatience about the fear. 

When something is in the way of being friendly and accepting, we call this 
the feeling about the feeling. It might be: "I'm angry about this fear," or 
"I'm afraid of this sadness," or "I'm impatient with this stuck place." 

Trying to push your way past this feeling won't work. If you ignore it, 
your Focusing will get stuck at this exact point. That's because the feeling 
about the feeling is a signal that something else is coming up that needs 
attention. 

Two things may happen, and they're both fine. Often, after you've spent 
some time with the feeling about the feeling, it relaxes and lets you go 
back to the original feeling. But sometimes the whole remainder of the 
session is about the feeling about the feeling. This is wonderfully 
rewarding, because it often relates to a central part of how you are in the 
world. When it changes, ripples of change spread through your whole life. 

Hearing all the voices 

We often believe that we must feel only one way about something. 



Ambivalence is wrong, we think. But it is the most natural thing in the 
world to have mixed feelings. A part of us wants to get to know someone 
better, another part of us is scared to get too close. A part of us feels angry 
that we haven't been consulted in a decision, but another part is 
frightened of the consequences of expressing that anger. 

Focusing allows all the parts of our self to be heard. And when their 
messages have been received, they change. You don't have to choose 
between different parts; they can all be there at the same time. They can 
each have their own space. And a special kind of magic can happen when 
we are able to be with all the different parts. Out of that can come 
something that is better than and different from any of the parts, and yet 
all the parts have given something essential to the new synthesis. 

We are complex beings in an ambiguous world. We are full of often 
contradictory feelings and thoughts. It can be liberating to realize that we 
don't have to be monolithic. With Focusing, we learn how to welcome, 
acknowledge, and accept all our responses to life—whatever they are. We 
can feel all our variety and subtlety, all our richness and complexity. 

The wisdom of not knowing 

Be willing to approach your inner experience without thinking that you 
know all about it already. This is the attitude of not knowing. Why would 
you listen to someone if you think you already know what he or she has to 
say? When you treat your felt sense this way—for example, 'T already 
know why I'm afraid"—you block your opportunity to find out what it's 
really about. 

You might be asking, "But what if I do already know?" Let me say this: as 
long as there is still a felt sense wanting your attention, there is 
something about it you don't know yet. If you are still experiencing 
tightness, fear, constriction, or stuckness, there is something your body 
knows and is trying to tell you. 

So be curious, open, and more interested in what you don't know yet than 
in what you already know. Try acknowledging what you already know 
about what you're Focusing on and then setting that aside. Not because 
it's wrong—it might not be— A but because it might be getting in the way 



of sensing what is new and not yet known about you and your life. 


Our modern culture puts a great premium on clarity. We are taught that 
if we can't think or say something clearly, then it's not important. The 
winner in school is the one who gets "the answer" the fastest—see those 
hands shoot up! It's rarely acknowledged that there is a valuable kind of 
knowing that is vague at first and takes time to access. 

The bias for clarity can lead to feeling uncomfortable in the face of 
something unclear and unknown, 'liow would I explain this to anyone? 
How would I defend it? What good is it?" Before you learned to honor 
and listen to felt senses, you might have dismissed them in just this way. 

Instead, enjoy them! When a felt sense first comes, you may not know 
what to call it, and you may not know what it is. Let that be OK. You will 
learn to delight in that not-knowing, to look eagerly for the parts of your 
experience that are not yet known, just as a treasure hunter is most 
excited by the treasure chests that have not yet been opened. 

It may not seem likely that there would be wisdom hiding in this fuzzy, 
vague, hard-to-describe something that you feel in your body, but there 
is. That's exactly where the wisdom is: not in what is already clear and 
known—that's old information—but in what is emerging in you, the 
knowing that is coming into awareness right now Learning Focusing is 
learning to value and even cherish the slow, subtle, and vague. 

Following the felt sense 

You can trust the felt sense to lead you to the center of the maze. It knows 
which way to go. All you have to do is follow and it will lead you right to 
the center. It wants to go there; it wants you to come, too. But only it 
knows the way, only it can take you there. To find your way, you need to 
trust it. You need to let go of controlling which direction you're going in. 
You have to let go of analyzing and asking why and judging. 

You can try lots of things during the process that may be very helpful— 
but the results are beyond your control. You can't make the felt sense do 
anything it isn't ready and willing to do. You can't make it tell you 
anything, and you can't make it change—any more than you can make the 
shy animal your friend against its will. You can only try things and offer 



possibilities, respectfully and without expectations, and see what happens 
next. Trying to impose your will on the felt sense is an exercise in pure 
futility. 

But trust and follow, and you will find that in the center of the maze lies 
the treasure you have been seeking. 

Every Focusing session is unique 

Remember that Focusing is a natural human process, and it is always 
more than we will be able to put into words. If there is one thing you can 
count on in Focusing, it's that you can't predict what is going to happen. 
Every time you sit down to do Focusing, especially at first, you may need 
to remind yourself that what happened last time probably won't happen 
today. It might be similar; it might be very different. It might feel like 
skipping along the surface; it might feel like deep sea diving. You might 
have lots of images today. You might have lots of detail about your life. It 
might be peaceful and quiet. Th A re might be lots of tears. But the felt 
sense will only bring you what you can deal with, and if you trust it and 
flow with it, you will find a natural resting place, a warm shore, a little 
closer to home. 



Chapter Four - Lets Begin 

Focusing 

Now you are ready to begin Focusing. In this chapter and the following 
one I will show you how to go through each stage of Focusing. Each stage 
has "Tips" to help with the most common questions and difficulties. Most 
of the stages are marked by phrases that you can say to yourself, such as 
"I'm sensing into my body." These phrases will be grouped together so 
you can glance down at them during your Focusing session and guide 
yourself through the process. However, every Focusing session is unique, 
and sometimes you will find yourself skipping stages or adding new ones, 
because that is what feels right to your felt sense. Bring with you the inner 
climate of safety and trust that you learned in the previous chapter, and 
you won't go wrong. 

Once you know how, you will also be able to focus on your feet, with your 
eyes open, while you're taking a walk, doing the dishes, or even driving. 
But first, let's look at Focusing in a quiet place while sitting comfortably. 

Getting ready 

When you first practice Focusing, it's best to find a time and place 
without any distractions. Close the door, turn off the phone, ask someone 
to corral the kids—do whatever you need to do to get some quiet time for 
yourself. It's ideal to set aside half an hour, but if all you can find is ten 
minutes in your day even that much is valuable. 

It's better to sit, not he down, because you don't want to fall asleep. But if 
your physical condition is such that you are only comfortable lying down, 
by all means do so. 

Tips 

Make sure you are warm enough. After sitting for a while you may start to 
feel cool, so you might want to have a sweater or a blanket handy before 
you start. 



You don't have to sit still, or in any particular position. Focusing is not 
the same as meditation. 


You might want to have your Focusing journal with you. This is a 
notebook in which you can, if you wish, record what comes in your 
Focusing session. 

"Which way today?" 

When starting a Focusing session you have the choice to use the session 
to work on something that you consciously select or wait and see what 
wants your attention now. Settle down, take a few deep breaths, and 
simply wonder if there is something specific you want to spend time with 
in today's Focusing session. The alternative is to just wait and see what 
comes. 

Tips 

• The kinds of issues you might choose to work on could be a decision, 
an unwanted habit, a reaction to someone or something (an object, 
an event), a physical symptom, or something you want more of in 
your life. Chapter Seven includes examples of many of these. 

• You can also choose to return to something that came up in an 
earlier Focusing session. 

• Sometimes when we become quiet enough to do Focusing, we find 
that there are things still "chasing" us. Or we remember an 
important chore we need to do. You might want to have a pencil and 
paper handy to jot down whatever is on your mind and getting in the 
way, so you'll be able to let it go for now. 

"I'm sensing into my body/' 

Notice what you need to do to be reasonably comfortable. You might want 
to loosen your clothing, especially anything around your waist, and 
perhaps take off your shoes. Take some deep, relaxing breaths. Usually 
you will let your eyes close or gaze downward without looking at anything 
in particular. Notice the parts of you that are touching the chair or floor, 
and notice the feeling of being held up by what you're sitting on. Notice 
how your feet feel, how your hands feel, how your shoulders feel. Take 
time to be aware of yourself as a physical being, taking up space in the 



world, having weight and volume and substance. 


After you feel that your awareness is in your body, bring your awareness 
into the middle area of your body, the part that includes your throat, 
chest, stomach, and abdomen. Take time to sense in your throat the same 
way you would check if you have a sore throat. You may feel clear there, 
or you may feel constriction, or potential tears, or something else. 

Then bring awareness down inside your chest area. Be aware of anything, 
such as tightness, heaviness, constriction, expansion, blank-ness, or 
peacefulness. Then bring your awareness down into your stomach and 
abdomen area. Notice tightness, jumpiness, queasiness, blankness, 
peacefulness, or something else. If you feel nothing for the moment, it 
doesn't matter. At this point your body is like an empty stage, waiting for 
the curtain to go up. Next, we will invite the play to begin. 

Tips 

If it is hard to bring your awareness into your body, take longer with this 
step. It might help to notice that you can feel where your arms and legs 
are without looking at them. This is called the "proprioceptive" sense, and 
it’s a powerful sense we often take for granted. Try closing your eyes and 
lifting your arm in the air. Notice that you can tell where your arm is, as 
well as your fingers, your hand, your wrist. 

You might experiment with feeling various parts of your body in this way. 

Another way of bringing your awareness into the middle of your body is 
to start with your feet and come up, like this: Wiggle a toe and sense what 
your toe feels like. Then move your awareness up into your knee, how 
does that feel? ... And up into your hips, what's that like? ... And now up 
into your abdomen and stomach. Just be there with your awareness. 

Don't worry if nothing seems to be happening. If this is at all strange or 
unfamiliar to you, then it is well worth practicing. 

If you are used to doing meditation or relaxation, you might need to be 
careful not to get too relaxed. You need to be able to remain aware of 
body sensations. If you are starting to drift off or are becoming so relaxed 
that you've lost awareness of your body, do something. Open your eyes 
for a moment, rub your hands together, stretch, move around a bit. Then 



bring your awareness back to your body again. 


"What wants my awareness now?" or "How am I about that issue?" 

Let your awareness rest gently in the middle area of your body: throat, 
chest, stomach, and abdomen. Imagine you are sending a welcoming 
invitation to your inner self. Say to yourself, in the middle of your body, 
"What wants my awareness now?" or "How am I about that issue?" 

The first question is a general invitation, if you don't have a particular 
issue to work on. It's like saying to a friend, "I'm here. What would you 
like to talk about today?" The second question invites your body to give 
you its felt sense about the particular issue you chose to work on. 

Now take time to notice how you are feeling in your body. You might 
notice sensations, emotions, or a kind of overall mood or atmosphere. It 
might feel different on different days, but you're just going to notice what 
it feels like today. There's no need to be too particular about what you're 
looking for; you're interested in anything that feels like something. 

There may be something already there when you bring awareness into 
your body or, in response to your invitation, you may feel something 
beginning to form. Give it time. 

When you are starting to become aware of something, and starting to 
sense where it is in your body, take time to notice what this something is 
like. What you notice might be unclear, slight, subtle, or vague, or it 
might be very strong and definite. Sense anything: an emotion like "sad" 
or "scared," a sensation like "tight" or "jittery," an image like "a knot" or 
"a rock"—anything at all. 

Don't worry about whether what you are feeling is a felt sense. Just keep 
on sensing. How does it feel in your body? You might stait to find a few 
words about it: "sad in my chest," "something kind of heavy in my 
stomach," "kind of jittery here," "an empty nothing," "a funny feeling 
about that decision I have to make." The list is endless. Each felt sense is 
unique. 

Tips 



The biggest barrier to successfully finding a felt sense is wondering if 
you're doing it right—if you "really" have one. In fact, it might be a good 
idea at this stage to forget you ever heard the words "felt sense." We don't 
want the concept to get in the way of your experience. Just think of 
yourself as looking for "something." Anything can be something. 

Even nothing is something and can have its own quality: "a gray nothing," 
"a spacious nothing," "a tired nothing." 

Even if you have decided to work on a particular issue, your body might 
have other plans. There are two things that can happen. Either you can 
see if your body is willing to let you be with the issue you wanted to work 
with, or you can let go of that issue for today and go with what is wanting 
to have your attention. Either is fine. 

Felt senses can form in any part of your body, but generally are clearer 
and easier to work with in the middle area: throat, chest, stomach, and 
abdomen. Start by sensing in this middle area. But if your awareness is 
drawn to something in another area of your body, that's fine. Even 
physical symptoms can be felt senses, as we'll see in Chapter Seven. 

If feeling and expressing your emotions is familiar territory for you, slow 
down a bit here. Focusing is not the same as getting into your feelings, 
although it certainly includes feelings. If you feel sad, sense where in your 
body the "sad" is. This takes a little time. 

"I'm saying hello to what's here/' 

When you first become aware of something, say to it, "Hello. I know 
you're there." Then take some time to notice how it responds to your 
greeting. It might ease a bit, or settle like a bird on a branch, or feel like 
someone getting comfortable to start a conversation, or it might get 
clearer and stronger, as if coming into focus. 

When you are saying hello, you are acknowledging that it's just as it is. 
This can be a precious moment in the process as you experience yourself 
meeting this inner part of you. You are coming into contact with what's 
true for you at this moment of your life. And that always feels good, even 
if you don't like what you find. 



Tips 


• The most important thing is not to rush. Take your time greeting 
your felt sense. Take time sensing how your body feels as you do so. 5 

• Saying hello is not only for the first thing you come in contact with. 
Each time you become aware of a new feeling or part of yourself, say 
hello to it as well. 

• Say hello literally, directly to it. Don't shout across a canyon but 
come up to it, at the right distance for a good hello. 

"I'm finding the best way to describe it." 

After you say hello to your felt sense, the next step is to describe it. 

Simply say to yourself how the sense feels right now in your body. This is 
the same way you might tell another person how it feels in your body 
right now. You'll usually use a word, a phrase, or an image. It might even 
be a sound or a gesture. It's whatever gets closest to describing how that 
sense feels right now. 

A word, phrase, or image may already have come that starts to describe 
what you are aware of. (We gave the examples of "sad in my chest," 
"something kind of heavy in my stomach," "kind of jittery here," "an 
empty nothing," "a funny feeling about that decision I have to make.") 
Now is the time to let the description fill out until you start to feel you are 
getting to know this part of yourself more clearly. This is like getting to 
know its name. 

This process of describing isn't something magical or strange. It's 
something we're all familiar with. If I had invented a new flavor for 
chewing gum and I gave you some to taste, you would put it in your 
mouth and chew on it for a while. Then if I asked you, "How would you 
describe that flavor?" you would roll it around in your mouth and say, 
"Urn ... well, it's not exactly cinnamon ... it's not quite mint... I know! It's 


Descriptions help you find your way to the center of the maze. You might 
know the descriptions you are finding are not quite right, but continuing 
to sense for good descriptions keeps you pointed toward the center. If 
something stirs, or moves, or gets stronger, or feels a little relieved as you 



become aware of this word or phrase or image, you are on the right track. 


Continue to sense for just what description would fit this felt sense 
perfectly. "No, that's close but it's not exactly that. Let's feel that some 
more ... Yeah, it's more like this ..." When you find the description that 
fits your experience, you'll feel a satisfying sense of rightness. Several 
things might happen next. 

You might feel the felt sense more strongly. This is a signal that you are 
moving toward the center of the maze. Follow that signal; you're getting 
closer. 

You might feel a slight sense of relief. Usually this means that something 
has opened you weren't aware of before. Take a little time to receive that. 
It usually comes with a little insight into the whole issue. You're getting 
closer. 

Finding the description might bring you right to the center of the maze. 
You will experience a distinct sense of release and relief. And as the body 
sensations ease, you might feel a spreading glow of warmth or peace. You 
might have a new insight about the whole thing: "Whew! So that's it! Now 
it makes sense." New steps might emerge. The whole thing might feel 
resolved and complete. You might want to end here. So just skip to the 
section in the next chapter called "I'm checking if it's OK to stop soon." 
And enjoy. 

Tips 

You can't force a description onto the felt sense or force it to open. Even if 
you don't find a satisfactory word, phrase, image, or gesture, the very act 
of sensing for that as you are feeling this something in your body is of 
great benefit. So please don't strive and strain for a description. You 
might just want to remind yourself that gently wondering about it is more 
productive than pushing. Loving the felt sense is more important than 
understanding it. Understanding will come in its own time. 

The most important thing is to stay in contact with how it feels in your 
body. It's too easy to get caught up searching for the right word and lose 
touch with how your body feels. Every time you become aware that your 
attention has drifted from how you feel inside, just bring your awareness 



back to the inner area of your body. You might want to repeat to yourself 
the last description that felt close or brought some response. 

It can be helpful to write in your Focusing journal the descriptions that 
come at this stage. Then if you lose your place, you can look at the journal 
and repeat the descriptions to yourself as a way of getting back in touch 
with where you were. 

"I'm checking back with my body." 

Checking back with your body is more than a stage in the Focusing 
process. It is something you do over and over, all through the session. At 
this point, when you're finding the description, do it first. But then please 
continue. 

Any words, sentences, images, or ideas that come from the felt sense need 
to be offered back to the felt sense for confirmation. This is a very 
powerful and important part of the process. Checking back with your 
body will move the session forward in a very deep and centered way. 
Here's how it works: You're feeling something in your body. Let's say it's 
in your throat. At first you can find no name for it; "something" is as close 
as you can get. You stay with it, and after a while you begin to feel you 
cou A call it "squeezing." 

Now, take the word "squeezing" and offer it back to the feeling in your 
throat, as if you're saying, "Squeezing? Is 'squeezing' right?" 

Three things n\ay happen, and any of them will move the session 
forward. First, you may feel an inner sense of rightness. Yes, "squeezing" 
is just right, and there is a satisfying sense of having captured the essence 
of what is there. You'll be able to stay with the feeling more easily now, 
and go into the next stages (which we'll learn about in the next chapter). 

Second, you may feel that that's partly right, but there's more. Yes, 
"squeezing" is part of it, but it's also something more ... what? um ... 
"scared"? Then you offer the word "scared" to the sense a& well, and see 
if "squeezing and scared" is right. 

Third, you may feel that "squeezing" is not right. But that's good too, 
because your sense of not right can lead you closer to what would be 



right. "Not 'squeezing'... it's more ... um ... Yes! Constriction!" And now 
you offer "constriction" to the sense, and feel for the inner sense of 
rightness there. 

Later in the session, as whole sentences come, continue to offer them 
back to the body to check for their rightness, and sense (1) yes, that's 
right, (2) partly, but there's more, or (3) not right—and what would be 
right? This will be a powerful aid to your Focusing process. 

Stop now, and before you read any further, try doing Focusing up to this 
point. If you're like many readers of self-help books, you tend to read the 
exercises and think about what might happen if you did them, instead of 
actually doing them. This is fine, but my intention is for you to have this 
skill. To have it, you must do it. So please start giving yourself practice by 
going through the stages as we've described them so far. Here they are, 
repeated: 

• "Which way today?" 

• "I'm sensing into my body." 

• "What wants my awareness now?" or "How am I about that issue?" 

• "I'm saying hello to what's here." 

• "I'm finding the best way to describe it." 

• "I'm checking back with my body." 




Chapter Five - Deeper into 

Focusing 

Now that you have learned how to bring awareness into your body and 
find something that wants to communicate with you, it's time to have the 
rest of the conversation. Up to this point. Focusing is like being 
introduced to someone and finding out their name. "Hello, you're 
tightness? Pleased to meet you." Now you are going to sit down with this 
inner part and learn its story, hear what it wants to tell you. 

"Is it OK to just be with this right now?" 

If you want to have a good and productive conversation, first you need to 
really be with the person you're talking to. You need to look them in the 
eye, say hello, make sure you have their name right—and then be there. 

You are not in a hurry, you are not pushy, you are not trying to impose 
your own agenda on this inner part of you that wants your attention. You 
are just being there, being with it. 

Take a nice, deep breath, settle into your body even deeper, and remind 
yourself that this is a process of spending time with something inside, just 
keeping it company. 

"I'm sitting with it, with interested curiosity/' 

Next imagine that you are sitting with this something. I like the metaphor 
of sitting because it lets my body know that I'm not in a hurry. If you're 
having a conversation with someone but you're standing up, how patient 
can you be? Standing communicates that you are only taking a little time 
for this conversation, and soon you must be getting on to something more 
important. But if you sit down, you are giving the message that it's fine 
for this conversation to take some time. 


The other important factor about the metaphor of sitting with is that you 
are not in the feeling, you are with it. (See the section on "Being in a 



relationship with your feelings" in Chapter Three.) Focusing is not about 
feeling as intensely as possible. Focusing is about keeping your feelings 
company so they can give their messages. This can be done best from the 
position of next to rather than in. 

Next add a little respectful curiosity and interest. Without expectation, 
simply wonder if more is there. Sometimes I say to people at this stage, 
"Just sit with that place, like you'd sit with a friend. Gradually you may 
begin to sense something more, something you haven't put into words 
yet." 

What comes at this stage might be very small: not the complete answer, 
just a little bit more. If it started out feeling "squeezed," in a little while it 
might feel "squeezed and resentful." Don't worry that you don't know yet 
what it's resentful about. What you don't know will always be bigger than 
what you know! Concentrate on what you do know. "Ah, resentful. OK, 
yes, squeezed and resentful. Let me just feel that much, for a while.... 
And is there more?" 

This attitude is one of interested curiosity. I love the word "curiosity," 
because I find it very hard to imagine "judgmental curiosity"! Curiosity 
can be the openness and wonder of a child investigating the world. "Ah, 
what's this?" 

Tips 

• Felt senses can be very sensitive to pressure. Remember the shy 
animal at the edge of the woods. If your felt sense tends to disappear 
when you go to sit with it, this might be a sign that some part of you 
is not ready to allow it to be as it is. You might say hello to that part 
of you. 

Often we assume we know what something is, or what it feels like, 
because we described it once. For example, we may continue to call a 
sensation in the stomach "fear" when it has actually turned into 
excitement. It's important to continue to sense throughout the session if 
what has come now feels like a good fit to your felt sense, to ask of a 
description as you become aware of it, "Is this right?" and then if it 
doesn't fit, to sense for what is right. 



Did you say hello? Did you find a fitting description? Did you ask if it was 
OK to spend some time with this? Thr biggest reason for difficulty at this 
stage is skipping over the previous stages. 

Whenever you are feeling doubtful about what came, let that be a signal 
that it's time to check with your body. Even when you don't feel doubt, do 
check whenever something new comes from the sense. Checking helps 
you stay grounded in your body. It helps you notice subtle differences or 
changes that may be very important. Checking gives you practice in using 
and honoring your inner sense of rightness. It develops a trusting inner 
relationship with your body and your felt senses. Your body will feel that 
you're listening when you carefully check with it, and you will feel 
grounded and certain about what is there. 

"I'm sensing how it feels from its point of view/' 

So far we have been approaching the felt sense from our point of view, 
from outside, so to speak. Now see if you can sense how the felt sense 
feels, from its point of view If it sounds strange to talk about your felt 
sense having a point of view separate from your point of view, I assure 
you that this is quite possible and very productive. 

Consider my student Jeanne. I asked her how it felt in her throat, and she 
said, making a face, "It feels uncomfortable." Can you tell whose point of 
view that was? Jeanne's, of course. Then 1 said to her, "OK, it feels 
uncomfortable. And could you also sense how it feels, from its point of 
view?" She was silent a moment, and then said, "Oh! It feels scared." 

The difference between "It feels uncomfortable (to me)" and "It feels 
scared" is a very important difference. When you can make that inner 
shift, from sensing how the felt sense feels to you, to sensing how it feels, 
itself, you are well on the way to hearing your body's message and 
receiving its wisdom. 

You know the way you can sense how a friend is feeling, even if he doesn't 
feel like talking. In that same way, you can sense more about this 
whatever-it-is inside you, without it "talking." You can sense its mood, 
perhaps, or a quality, or an atmosphere. Words may pop into your head, 
or an image, or a memory. You may visualize the sense in a posture, such 



as hiding or ready to fight. Be open to whatever comes to you. 

Tips 

If nothing happens, back up and slow down! The most likely difficulty is 
that you are pushing too hard, expecting too much. See if you can hold 
the attitude that you are primarily building a trusting relationship with 
the inner senses in your body Any information that may come is extra. Be 
there ... and be interested. 

"I'm asking..." 

After you have spent some time with the felt sense, you might sense if it 
feels right to ask it a question. Sometimes a question can be very helpful. 
It can be a good way to remind yourself to stay with the body sense. A 
question gives the felt sense some gentle structure. It helps direct your 
attention to what more is there. At other times, questions don't feel right. 
The inside place doesn't want a question right now. 

When you ask the felt sense a question, don't expect it to answer in a 
literal sense. Ask a question as a way of directing your awareness to sense 
more of what's there. When I first learned Focusing, asking questions was 
a problem for me. I kept thinking my inner place was supposed to open 
up a little mouth and talk back to me! When that didn't happen, I figured 
I was hopeless as a Focuser. Then I realized that, even for the people who 
were Focusing successfully, that wasn't what was happening for them. 
Little mouths weren't opening up inside them. Instead, they seemed to be 
sensing more, in response to holding an open, questioning attitude. 
Asking questions wasn't essential. What was essential was an attitude of 
friendly interest and respectful curiosity. So the purpose of the question 
is to help you hold the attitude. 

I will give you the four most frequently helpful questions. But you and 
your process are unique, so be open to the possibility that, today, some 
other question might be the most helpful for you, and ask your body to 
help you sense what that question is. 

"I'm asking if it has an emotional quality." If you haven't yet sensed any 
emotion, try asking at this point what emotion the fell sense has. For 
example, if the felt sense is "tightness," you might ask inwardly, "What is 



the emotional quality of this tightness?" You might try out a few 
possibilities: "Is it a scared tightness? Is it a joyous tightness? Is it an 
angry tightness?" Even if all the possibilities you suggest are wrong, as 
you say them keep sensing in your body, and it will let you know which 
emotion words are closer. 

Once you are in contact with "scared tightness" or "angry tightness," 
there is a depth and a richness to your felt sense. You have a much better 
chance of learning even more than when you had just "tightness." 

"I'm asking it, 'What gets it so ?'" If your Focusing 

process needs another question, try using the description or the emotion 
word as part of the question: 

"What gets it so ?" Fill in the blank with the description 

you got earlier, or the emotion word from the previous question. 

For example, if the description is "jumpy," you would ask the felt sense, 
"What gets you so jumpy?" Or if the emotion word is "scared," you would 
ask, "What gets you so scared?" 

If what you're feeling seems obvious, as in "Of course, anyone would feel 
this way," try asking what feels the most that way. For example: 

"What's gets you the most jumpy?" 

"What's gets you the most scared?" 

Remember, you haven't really heard the message of your felt sense until 
you hear something that you didn't already know. 

"I'm asking it what it needs." If you've spent time with these questions 
and something still feels unfinished, try asking the felt sense: "Do you 
need something from me (or from the world)?" or 

"What needs to happen next?" You wouldn't ask this kind of question 
first, because that's too much like trying to alleviate the feeling before 
you've heard its message. 



What kind of presence does this place need? Does it just need my quiet 
company? Does it need some love and empathy? Does it need some 
encouragement to say more? Ask... and wait. 

"I'm asking my body to show me how 'all OK' would feel." If 

you've asked all these questions and you still feel the need of something 
more, there is an additional type of question that can be quite magical. 
Someday, in some possible future, this whole thing, whatever it is, will be 
"all OK." In other words, the situation will be cleared up, resolved 
satisfactorily. The amazing thing is that your body knows now how it 
would feel to have the situation resolved, even though your logical mind 
has no idea how that could happen. So ask in your body, "How would 'all 
OK' feel right now?" and just wait. Let your body show you. Don't go with 
thoughts, such as "I think I would feel relieved," or "I'd probably be able 
to relax then." Ask your body to show you by beginning to feel that way 
right now. 

This kind of question helps create a welcome for new ways of being and 
new action steps. Sometimes these steps arise spontaneously, but we can 
also invite them to form. It is important at this stage to sit back, wait, and 
see what comes from the felt sense. I promise you that what the felt sense 
can create is infinitely better, more creative, and richer than anything 
your conscious mind can think up. You may feel stuck, but it isn't! 

Tips 

Remember, asking questions of the felt sense comes after saying hello to 
the felt sense, describing it, and seeing if it's OK to just be with it. The 
most common reason for getting nothing in answer to an inner question 
is that it was asked too soon. You need to establish a good relationship 
before something inside you will be willing to answer questions. 

If asking a question feels like an intrusion to your felt sense, check if you 
asked with an attitude of impatience, such as "Hurry up and tell me what 
you're about, right now!" If so, you'll need to say hello to that part of you 
that is impatient, and sit with that part, with interested curiosity, perhaps 
asking "What gets you so impatient?" 


There are many questions you could use to help your felt sense open up to 



you. You could ask if there is an image that would somehow express this 
whole thing. Or you might wonder what it is in your life that is bringing 
this feeling now. Or you might ask, "Where is the edge? Where is the 
boundary between what I know and don't know about this? What do I 
almost know." Or you can ask the felt sense, "What do you want me to 
know?" 

Don't ask any question that starts with the word "why." "Why" belongs to 
your logical mind, and your logical mind will happily leap in and take 
over. "Why" also contains a connotation of criticism or judgment (as in 
"Why are you holding the book that way?"). If you really want to ask a 
"why" question, try rephrasing it with "what." "Why are you angry?" 
becomes "What gets you so angry?" "Why are you hurting?" becomes 
"What happened that you're hurting?" 

Another sign of your logical mind taking over is if you find yourself saying 
"I think," or "probably," or "it must be." These are indications that the 
answer is not coming from the felt sense. Bring your awareness back to 
your body and ask the question again, or take the "logical" answer and 
ask the body, "Is this right?" You will learn to recognize the body's inner 
sense of rightness. 

The body takes time to answer. It is slower than our rational mind or our 
capacity to visualize. Answers that come quickly need to be confirmed 
with the body. They may be right, but we need to let the body tell us so. 

If you feel uncertain about whether what came is real, check with your 
body, with your felt sense. Ask it confirming questions, such as "Is this 
right? Have I understood you?" 

Sometimes no questions are needed. You don't have to ask questions. Be 
sensitive to what the felt sense needs. Questions are not to satisfy our 
curiosity, they are to help the felt sense express what it needs to let us 
know. 

"I'm checking if it's OK to stop soon." 

To end your Focusing session, first respectfully ask your felt sense if it 
feels OK about stopping. Ask it, "Is it OK to stop in a minute or two, or is 
there something more you need to let me know first?" This is not the 



same as asking if the problem is resolved. The problem may not be 
resolved, and it may certainly not be resolved in a way that your logical 
mind had expected. But it might still be time to stop. The feeling might 
be, "That’s enough for now." 

It's good to ask if something more needs to come and be known before 
you stop. Often the felt sense reveals something very important when it is 
asked that question. There have been times when people have felt this to 
be the most important part of the session. 

Since change in Focusing comes in steps, a little more each time, your 
body may feel that this is enough for now, even though you can also tell— 
A and it can tell you—that there is more to come at a later time. 

The ending is a good time to review what came and to ask yourself what 
you would like to remember from the session. Focusing happens at such a 
deep level that your new awareness may tend to slip out of your 
consciousness unless you take a little time to remember. This is also a 
good time to receive fully any changes that may have happened. Even 
little changes need to be fully welcomed. And if a felt sense has 
transformed from something uncomfortable into a warm, spacious, 
pleasant, even glowing feeling, take the time to let that be there as much 
as it would like to be. Invite it to fill your body as fully as it wants to. This 
feeling doesn't have to stop just because your session is stopping; you can 
bring it with you! 

Tips 

• Even if you have time constraints, you can end a session gently. 

When you begin a session, let your body know how much time you 
have or when you need to stop: "We have ten minutes," or "I need to 
be getting ready for work by 7:00." The body has an amazing 
capacity for self-timing and will bring up something appropriate for 
that amount of time. 

• Make sure that you start stopping a few minutes before you really 
have to stop. Barbara McGavin offers the rule of thumb that you 
generally need one to two minutes stopping time for every ten 
minutes of Focusing. So if you have a ten-minute session you'll 
probably need two minutes to stop, and if you have a thirty-minute 



session you'll probably need five minutes to stop. 

The Focusing process has a natural rhythm, a cadence of exploration and 
then rest. Usually there is a time about every five to ten minutes when it 
would be possible to stop, so you're never very far from a comfortable 
stopping place. 

The stages we have listed here are only suggestions. You don't have to go 
through them all (except that the earlier ones are important to help the 
later ones go well). Ending the session might feel right at any stage. Let 
your body tell you when ending is right; you don't have to focus for 
twenty minutes if it feels right to stop after fifteen. 

"I'm saying. Til be back/" 

You will be able to come back to your body later and continue this 
process. The most respectful leavetaking involves telling the inside place 
that you will be back. You're letting your body know you understand that 
this is part of a larger process, and there will be more. 

Tips 

If something is not finished, at first the felt sense may find it difficult to 
let you go. It finally has your attention and may be afraid you won't come 
back. You may need to reassure it that you really will come back, and 
then, of course, you will need to keep your promise. Over time, as you 
show yourself to be trustworthy in this, your felt senses will find it easier 
to let you go at the end of each session. 

You might want to "mark the place." This is like using a bookmark to 
easily find your place again. There might be a vivid image, or a certain 
sentence or phrase, that will help you recall the place you reached. You 
might want to draw or write this in your Focusing journal. 

"I'm thanking my body and the parts that have been with me." 

This is also a time to thank and appreciate your body process for what it 
has given you. 


Remember that the essence of Focusing is to have a good relationship 



with your inner self. You have succeeded in Focusing if you have stayed 
with something you feel in your body, even if nothing else happened. 
Congratulate yourself! 

Summary of Focusing Phrases 

"Which way today?" 

'T'm sensing into my body." 

"What wants my awareness now?" or "How am I about that issue?" 

"I'm saying hello to what's here." 

"I'm finding the best way to describe it." 

"I'm checking back with my body." 

"Is it OK to just be with this right now?" 

"I'm sitting with it, with interested curiosity." 

"I'm sensing how it feels from its point of view." 

"I'm asking if it has an emotional quahty." 

"I'm asking it, 'What gets it so ?'" [emotion or 
description word] 

"I'm asking it what it needs." 

"I'm asking my body to show me how 'all OK' would feel." 

"I'm checking if it's OK to stop soon." 

"I'm saying. Til be back.'" 

"I'm thanking my body and the parts that have been with me." 



Chapter Six - Receiving the 

Gifts 


The positive feeling that comes from Focusing is such a special 
experience that I'd like to take time to tell you about how to receive it. 
Gendlin calls this positive feeling the "felt shift." It is a time when 
everything in your body/mind, in your whole organism, is rearranging 
itself to accommodate the new understanding you have received. 

In other methods, you may have to take it on faith that something good 
has happened. But in Focusing, your body tells you immediately that 
something fundamental has changed, and it tells you by feeling good in a 
rather special way. You will probably recognize this feeling. It will 
probably be familiar from times in your life when you felt a kind of "aha!" 
after puzzling out a difficult problem. Or you may have this kind of 
feeling when you are in the flow of a creative project, at those moments 
when everything clicks into place. It feels marvelous. 

The felt shift feels like fresh air coming into a closed room, or new life 
awakening and stirring inside, or excitement, or energy moving. There 
may be a distinct sense of relief and release. Often people feel clarity, 
peace, and groundedness; a warm, spacious well-being. 

When this happens (and it could be at any time in the session), give 
yourself some time to receive this gift. We have such a tendency to rush 
on, to do something with what came, or to figure it out, or to get back to 
work on the rest of the problem, or on another problem. We treat our 
problems like patients in a waiting room. When one is eased a little, we 
call out "Next!" Instead, remind yourself to simply welcome what came .. 
. make room for it... receive it. Take time to feel how it feels. 

When your session stops, the good feeling doesn't have to stop. Feel free 
to bring it back with you. Invite it to fill your body as much as it wants to. 
It might even expand beyond the boundaries of your body. 


If you don’t feel better after Focusing 



What if you don't feel good? Did Focusing fail? 


Probably not. Remember that Focusing involves building a relationship 
with your inner self. Relationships always take time to build. If you 
haven't spent much time with your felt senses before, they may need 
some time to come to trust you. Each Focusing session is a part of 
building that trust. Each session builds on the one before. 

Large life issues (the ones we most want to change!) will need several 
sessions. You may need to return to something over days, weeks, or even 
months. (And not every session has to be about that issue.) You may feel 
the steps of change long before an issue feels resolved. A step of change is 
like: "OK, at least I know this much. Yes, it feels good and right so far. 
And I can stop for now and come back to this later." 

Focusing usually feels good. How good it feels depends on a lot of factors. 
Be sure to welcome any good feeling, like a gardener who is glad when a 
green shoot first shows above the ground, long before it becomes a 
flower. 

Grounding a transformative session 

Occasionally, especially after you have been Focusing on something over 
a number of sessions, you will have a session that feels really good. You 
feel transformed, released, a big shift. Everything about this issue feels 
different. In this case it is vitally important to ground the session. You 
really have changed, but for a time your old habit patterns will co-exist 
with the new. Imagine yourself in situations where the old pattern was 
found, and notice how you feel now, and how you behave now. Most 
important is to sense how your body feels now, to feel how your body has 
changed. Stay with that changed feeling until it feels like it has settled 
into the very tissues and bones of your body Don't just open your eyes 
and go about your day as if nothing had happened. That will make it 
harder for the new, transformed way of being to begin to operate in your 
life. Instead, if you can, take some extra time after the session to honor 
what happened. 

Write about it in your Focusing journal. Sit for a while, ]u? A feeling, and 
then write. Begin with what you are feeling now, in your body. Then tell 



the story of the session, as much as you remember. How you started, 
what came next, what came after that. Especially write down what it was 
that came directly before your shift in feeling. Perhaps it was a sentence, 
such as 'T am enough." Perhaps it was a symbol, or an image, such as a 
tree with spreading branches and roots going deep in the ground. After 
writing, sit quietly again, sensing if any more needs to be written to 
capture how you feel now. 

Create art or music afterward. If you draw or paint, play an instrument or 
sing, or write poetry, you might want to create something after your 
transformative session. UnUke writing in your journal, this creation does 
not have to tell the story of your session, unless you want it to. Free 
yourself of any constraint about what it should be, and just create what 
comes. Set aside all judgment about whether you are "good" at this; your 
creation is for you, not to show to others (unless you want to, of course). 
Then come back to it later, and physically re-experience your own 
creation as you read, hear, or see it. 

Tell a friend what happened. Find a trusted friend, soon after your 
transformative session, and tell him or her what happened. Tell your 
friend that you would like him or her to listen without suggestions or 
advice. As you tell, let your body re-experience what happened in the 
session as much as feels appropriate. 

Positive feelings can support a physical healing process 

Focusing can enable you to access your body's powers of physical healing, 
and this can be a very powerful and positive experience. 

My friend Chris Rex was dealing with her second breast cancer in seven 
years. The night before her operation, she did Focusing to help prepare 
herself. She assumed the Focusing session would be about her fears about 
the operation and her anxiety about its success. 

She sat down to do Focusing and brought her awareness into her body. 
Almost immediately, she was surprised by strongly pleasurable feelings of 
energy running through her arms and legs and into the trunk of her body. 
The thought came to her, 'This is healing energy," and tears of joy came to 
her eyes. 



The next day, as she was in the hospital preparing for the operation, she 
could feel her confidence in her body's healing power. She was snuling as 
she rolled into the operating room. The operation was a success, and her 
body healed quickly. 

A few months later she was in radiation therapy and was having a hard 
time. Once again she did Focusing, expecting to get in touch with fear and 
resentment at having her skin burned in order to prevent the return of 
her cancer. But this time when she brought awareness into her body, she 
had the image of a cooling waterfall. She felt a healing coolness all 
through her body, including the burned area. Her radiation therapy 
became much easier to take. 

Treasure your new good feelings, no matter how small 

Powerfully transformative sessions are wonderful, but most sessions will 
feel good in a milder way. Just as the felt sense can be vague at first, and 
not very strong, so can the felt shift. Be sure to accept it, and celebrate it, 
just as it is. 

What has come in you is like a new green shoot, and now you are the 
gardener. It’s your job to protect that new green shoot from the voice that 
says, "That's not enough!" and from all the other critical voices. It's 
painfully easy to discount the new steps of change that come in a 
Focusing session. Just the other day a student said to me, shaking his 
head, "I have no guarantee that this works or is valuable other than the 
fact that I feel better after every session." 

And don't worry about whether you understand what happened. You can 
expect some times when your body feels different but your mind doesn't 
yet understand. So let your mind take a rest, especially during this time, 
and just protect, receive, and welcome. Be the gardener, and remember 
that when the new green shoot first comes up in the garden, it isn't good 
for anything yet, and that's OK! 



Chapter Seven - Specific Uses 

of Focusing 

In this chapter I'd like to offer you some stories about people using 
Focusing for particular purposes. This will be a chance to see how 
Focusing actually works in practice. Because Focusing is a very broad 
purpose skill these examples don't cover all the possibihties, but they do 
suggest how Focusing can be applied to situations that arise in our lives. 

Dealing with overwhelming feelings 

After her marriage broke up, Mary often found herself in tears. She felt 
fragile, as if she might fall apart at the least touch. She feared her friends 
would become tired of her neediness, and she tried to push her feelings 
away. 

She hoped Focusing would help, but at first it seemed to make things 
worse. "When I put my awareness in my body," she said, "I feel the tears 
filling up my throat and my chest, and I feel scared that it's just too 
much." 

Then she remembered the Focusing step of acknowledging by saying 
hello to what is there. She said hello to the tears and hello to the part of 
her that was scared. She was surprised to notice a feeling of relief. The 
tears were still there, but they seemed to be at a slight distance, not 
threatening to overwhelm her. 

"Before," said Mary, "the tears were like big ocean waves, and I was 
drowning. Now the tears are more like a lake. It's a big lake, but I'm just 
standing next to it. It's amazing, but I just don't have to get into that 
lake." 

By acknowledging, by saying hello, Mary found a more comfortable 
relationship with her feelings. Now, for the first time, she could listen to 
her tears, because she was centered enough to be able to listen. 



"Hello, tears," she whispered. "Is there something you want to tell me?" 


Then she waited, just feeling in her body, in her throat and chest. It was 
like asking a question of a sad friend and then waiting patiently for the 
friend to speak. 

As she waited, she began to get the impression of a child, a young girl 
about four years old. The girl was looking at her with big, sad eyes. Mary 
had the feeling that the girl was saying to her, "Please don't abandon me 
again!" 

Mary was puzzled, so she said to the girl, "OK, but tell me, when did I 
abandon you?" 

Again she waited, and slowly she began to see scenes from her marriage, 
times when she had put her own feelings and needs aside because she 
thought she had to put her husband first. Now she could see the little girl 
in those scenes, standing at the edge of the room, like a ghost, her own 
feelings and needs waiting hopelessly to be noticed. 

She started to cry, but this time the tears felt welcome and fresh, not 
overwhelming. She spoke to the little girl, and felt the inner strength in 
her body as she said, "I won't abandon you again! I won't abandon you 
again!" 

Overwhelming feelings are a signal that something very important is 
wanting to have our attention, wanting to be heard. Unfortunately the 
very intensity of the feeling may interfere with our willingness to hear it. 
When we can start by saying hello and forming a positive relationship 
with the feeling, it becomes easier to bear, and it is able to give its 
message. 

Although tears may sometimes accompany an overwhelming feeling, they 
may also feel welcome and fresh, a sign that something true and 
important is being felt. Your body knows the difference. 

Releasing an addiction 

Angela worked with me to change her habit of eating too many sweets. 
She didn't realize that in the process she would also release herself from 



her dead-end job, which she hated. 


She sat quietly and brought her awareness into the middle area of her 
body She was inviting the part of her that liked to eat sweets to 
communicate with her. Soon she began to feel something in her solar 
plexus area. I encouraged her to take her time to feel it and describe it. 

"It feels like grief/' she said. "But I don't know what it's about. I invited 
her to stay with the feeling in a gentle, compassionate way, and notice 
anything more she might be aware of about that place. Soon she added, 
"There's a hole. There's a part of me that's grieving, and keeps trying to 
fill that hole." 

I asked her to keep on sensing that place in her body, and to send it 
empathy, trying to sense how it felt from its point of view. 

"It's grieving because it doesn't want to change; this is all that it has 
known." 

I suggested that she acknowledge this. When she did, she was aware of 
more: "Now there's fear ..." She was feeling the fear in the same place, the 
solar plexus area of her body. 

"It's something about feeling good," she said. She was quiet for a few 
moments, sensing more. "This part of me gets scared when I feel good too 
long, so it comes in and binges. Oh! It's been protecting me! At least, it 
thinks it's protecting me." 

This was a big realization, and Angela's voice had softened quite a bit. She 
was feeling the difference in her body, too, a sense of warmth and 
compassion for this part of her. The fear was still there, but it had 
lightened. 

"I'm feeling a lot of compassion for this part," she reported. "It's had to be 
afraid for so long." 

Then a connection with her job came. "Oh! This part is afraid of feeling 
joy, so it keeps me in a job where I don't feel any" She continued to sense 
that area of her body, aware of the inner meaning coming there. "This 
part believes where there's joy, there's pain." 



Now even I could sense a difference. She seemed to be glowing with an 
inner light. "It’s like a great big dam has just let go. There's energy 
flowing through me now It's like being lifted out of a cave, to where you 
can see and smell and hear again." 

I asked her how that place in her body felt now. "It feels loving and joyful 
and free/' she reported. 

Three months after her session, Angela was in a training program for a 
new career that brought her joy. Her eating of sweets was moderate and 
not a problem. 

When using Focusing with an addiction (any repetitive behavior that 
interferes with our being fully present to our feelings), invite a felt sense 
of the part of you that wants to do the behavior. This is the part that 
wants to eat sweets, the part that wants to drink, the part that wants to 
smoke. This part has not had a voice because you have been to busy 
condemning it ('Tt's not healthy to drink so much") or excusing it ("But I 
deserve a little relaxation in my stressful life"). Focusing allows you to 
sense from its point of view and to discover the underlying purposes that 
this part of you is pursuing. 

It may also be productive to ask if there is another part which is being 
hidden or suppressed by the addictive behavior. You can ask yourself in 
your body, "Is there something hidden under this?" Another powerful 
question is, "Is there something that wants to live?" 

Making a decision 

Matt was living in Chicago but he felt an urge to live elsewhere. An 
important relationship had recently ended, and his job wasn't what he 
really wanted to do. His best friend had moved to Seattle and was 
enjoying the city a lot. Matt visited Bob for a week and got a taste of life in 
Seattle. But he found it hard to decide to move. He had lived in Chicago a 
long time and had a network of friends and a comfortable home. 

He tried making a list of the pros and cons of moving and staying. There 
were advantages and disadvantages to both moving and staying, and after 
Matt made the lists he felt as uncertain as ever. So he decided to try 
Focusing. 



When Focusing on a decision that has two clear options, it is often best to 
take one option at a time and get a felt sense of each one separately. Matt 
first chose the option of staying in Chicago. He brought his awareness 
into his body, and pictured himself staying in Chicago. He asked his body 
for a sense of that: "How does staying in Chicago feel in my body?" 

He waited, and in a few moments he began to notice a heavy feeling, 
especially in his arms and legs. In his stomach and abdomen there was 
something hard to describe. He stayed with the feeling in his stomach 
and abdomen, and got the word, "Stagnant." He checked that word back 
with his body: yes, stagnant was right. He asked if it would be OK to sit 
with that stagnant feeling, to sense how it felt from its point of view. In a 
few moments he got the words, "Going nowhere." He checked with his 
body, and that was right: staying in Chicago felt like going nowhere. 

Matt felt complete with that option, so he thanked that bodv feeling and 
set it aside. Then he pictured himself moving to Seattle. He asked, "How 
does moving to Seattle feel in my body?" 

This time he felt a tingling excitement in his arms and legs. He felt a 
lightness through the whole middle of his body, especially his chest. He 
checked the word "lightness" and found that it felt right. When he stayed 
with that feeling, the words came, "moving forward." Matt ended his 
session with a clear sense that moving to Seattle felt like moving forward. 

Matt continued to thirJ< about his decision. He researched jobs in Seattle 
and talked to friends. He focused several more times, with similar results. 
After about a month he gave notice at his job, packed up, and moved to 
Seattle. Within a week he met someone, and a year later he was living 
with her happily A job was harder to find, but he never regretted his 
move. 

Most people find that one Focusing session is not enough for making a 
decision as big as a move to a new city. This may take several sessions, 
over time, along with other factors such as researching the practical 
aspects of the decision. Focusing may also result in a sense that this may 
be the right decision, but the timing isn't right yet. Focusing can be a key 
part of any decision, especially a big decision, because you don't want to 
make an important decision with your logic alone! You want to bring your 



heart and your gut into it to be sure that all of you is satisfied with the 
choice. 


Getting information from a physical symptom 

Kay had no idea why she suddenly started sneezing all the time. It 
reminded her of an allergic sneeze, but nothing about her lifestyle or the 
weather conditions had changed recently. There were reasons why she 
did not want to take medication to suppress the sneezing, so her Hfe was 
rather miserable. Sleep was especially difficult. She decided to use 
Focusing to see if she could understand the inner meaning of this 
physical symptom. 

She brought her awareness to the middle area of her body and then 
moved her awareness to her head, saying hello to the feelings there. She 
realized that her eyes, nose, and ears were all involved, all sending signals 
of some kind. She found the word "scratchy" for the physical feel of all 
that. Then she sat with "scratchy" with gentle curiosity. 

In a few minutes she got the words "tired" and "full up." She checked 
back with her body: yes, those words were right. Then she asked the 
feeling, "What area of my life does this feel connected with?" and in a 
moment she sensed, "My job." 

After acknowledging that answer, she asked further, "What is it about my 
job that brings this scratchy, tired, full up feeling?" Images began to come 
to her: she was indirectly involved in a labor dispute, and she was having 
to put in longer hours in order to respond to complaints she felt were 
frivolous. "Is that it?" she asked her body, and there was a feeling: that's 
part of it, but that's not the central issue. So she waited, inviting the 
central issue to come into her awareness. She got the words, "It's about 
me not trusting me." At that point she felt a big relief in her body, and her 
eyes and nose felt clear. She allowed herself to just enjoy that feeling, to 
savor it for a while. 

But Kay was aware that her ears still had something more to tell her. So 
she brought awareness again to her ears, and once again looked for a 
word to name the physical feeling. The word that came was "aching." She 
checked "aching," and it was right. She sat with the aching feeling with an 



attitude of interested curiosity. She got the word "clamor," and it felt 
right, but not complete. In fact, "clamor" felt like a very good word to 
describe the work atmosphere these days! So she asked the feeling in her 
ears, "What is it about the clamor that feels so aching?" 

Then she got it: "Oh! 1 need to listen to my inner voice!" Once again this 
brought relief, and an inner sense of rightness. She still felt a little aching 
in her ears, but it didn't feel as though there was more information there. 
It felt like the little aching was there to remind her of what she had 
learned. 

As Kay ended the session by thanking her body, she realized she had 
been sitting for forty minutes without a single sneeze! The next day, 
however, her nose was running as much as before. 

Quite often the information we get from a physical symptom is true, and 
feels right, but the physical symptom doesn't change. It's as if Focusing is 
only part of the picture at this level. On the other hand, sometimes 
physical symptoms do change as a result of Focusing. One night before a 
workshop, I came down with a sore throat. I was discouraged, because I 
hate being sick while teaching. My co-leader suggested that I focus on it. 
In my session, I discovered a part of me that w A s feeling stretched past its 
limits by new aspects of my work. I heard and acknowledged its feelings. 
Within an hour, the sore throat was gone. 

Releasing writer’s block 

Releasing writer's block is my own story, one of the many successful 
times I have used Focusing in my own life, and certainly one of the most 
striking. This is not the story of one session, but of many. I will just give 
the highlights here, but the truth is that releasing my writer's block with 
Focusing happened over years. And it was worth it. 

The first time I tried to use Focusing to release my writer's block, I 
brought my awareness into my body and tried to experience the felt sense 
of not being able to write. In my chest I got a feeling of darkness, hiding. 
Not writing felt like hiding. That was all. 


In my next Focusing session on that issue, I asked again for the felt sense 
of the writer's block. Again it started with darkness and a feeling of 



hiding, but there was something more. After a few minutes I was able to 
articulate the subtle difference. It didn't just feel like hiding, it felt like 
ducking. If I stuck my head up, something was going to get me. Writing 
was like sticking my head up, and some part of me was scared of what 
would happen. 

In my next session I started with the feeling of being scared to put my 
head up. I got an image of being on a shooting range—at the target end. If 
I showed myself, I'd be sniped at. The word "sniping" felt very important; 
I could feel changes in my body, heat expanding in my chest, as I got that 
word. I said it to myself, "sniping, sniping," and felt the body reaction. 
Then suddenly I got an image of my father's face with a sarcastic 
expression. In his voice I heard the words, "Who do you think you are?" 

A flood of knowing came into my body/mind, all at once. I remembered 
how my father had sniped at me with sarcasm, especially when I 
expressed myself in an expansive way, which he called "showing off." I 
realized that the tender, creative parts of me had gone into hiding out of 
fear and protection against these attacks. 

When I opened my eyes at the end of that session I felt different. My 
whole body felt new, fresh, open. I didn't know what was going to change, 
but I knew that something was; it was a whole new world out there. 

And my writing changed. It wasn't completely easy, but it was easier. 
Focusing had helped me communicate with the part of myself that was in 
the way of writing. The act of communicating, of hearing how this part of 
me really felt, was enough to bring some release. For several years after 
the revelation about my father's "sniping" I got by, writing in bursts but 
procrastinating for periods of time in between. I was glad it was better, 
but impatient for more, especially since I had a taste of what it was like to 
write with ease. So I sat down to do Focusing again. 

Once again I brought my awareness into my body and asked for the felt 
sense of the part of me that didn't want to write. I consciously set aside 
my impatience and invited an attitude of acceptance. 

I began to sense a tight band across my chest. As I kept my awareness 
with this band, I began to sense its strength. It was strong and there was 



also something more, some quality I found hard to put words to. It was 
almost as if this feeling had life, a particular kind of life. It was brash, 
fresh, bursting with energy, but also stubborn, young. Finally I got it: this 
tight band felt "adolescent"! With that realization came a picture of me as 
an adolescent, hands on hips, saying, "You can't make me do it!" 

Instead of arguing with this adolescent or trying to break her spirit, I 
admired her strength and appreciated her stubborn power. I spent time 
trying to listen to her, to sense what she was saying and what she needed. 
By the end of the Focusing session I felt I had acknowledged the inner 
yearnings of the part of me that didn't want to be pushed around by 
anyone. 

I didn't know if anything would change in my life because of this session. 
True, I felt better afterwards, but no decisions were reached, no 
concessions made. The adolescent seemed as stubborn as ever. So I was 
taken by surprise by what happened the next day. 

My writing time approached and I turned on my computer, expecting to 
feel the familiar reluctant drag away, the feeling of "Let's do anything but 
this." Instead I felt a strong positive energy pulling me toward the 
computer! And the quality of that positive energy was brash, fresh, 
stubborn, young—my adolescent! She was drawing me toward the 
computer; she was saying, "Come on, let's write!" The very energy that 
had blocked me was now totally on my side because its concerns and 
feelings had been heard. Since that time, I have never had any difficulty 
writing, and the difference in my life is like night and day. 

Using Focusing with an action block is similar to using it with an 
addiction. An action block, like writer's block or procrastination, 

can be expressed as "I want to , but I don't." In Focusing, 

you assume there is a part of you that doesn't want to do the behavior, 
and you invite a felt sense of that part of you, with an accepting attitude. 
This process gives a voice to something that has not had a voice and 
releases the blocked system, often in unexpected ways. 

Be prepared to be surprised. As you sense this block in a new way, you 
may even discover that what you thought you wanted to do isn't really so. 



One woman worked on a block that stopped her from doing sports. ("I've 
had this block for ten years.") After Focusing with the part of her that 
didn't want to do sports, she announced, "I realize that I hate sports!" She 
then formulated a new goal: to be more active in vigorous body 
movement. She joined a dance class; no more block. 

Getting clear on an interpersonal issue 

Jan left a good job in order to go back to graduate school. When she 
heard her best friend was applying for the job she had left, she had a 
strong reaction. It wasn't that Jan had expected to go back to the job 
herself; she had given it up with no strings attached. But she felt "weird," 
as she put it, when she heard her friend was applying. 

It bothered her for weeks, no matter how often she told herself it was 
unimportant, no big deal. She didn't get anywhere thinking about it 
either. 

So she sat down to do Focusing. She brought her awareness into her 
body, especially into the middle of her body, and invited her body to give 
her the feeling connected with this issue. 

In a minute or two, she began to feel something in her middle. At first it 
was so vague that the word "something" was the only way to describe it. 
Then she began to get that it was "kind of tight, kind of elongated." She 
checked those words with her body, and yes, they felt right. Then she 
stayed with the feeling. 

In a while she began to sense sadness there. This came as a surprise; of all 
the feelings she had expected, sadness was not one of them. But she 
acknowledged the sadness, and stayed with it. Soon it began to feel right 
to ask it a question, so she asked it, "What is it that gets you so sad?" 

In response to the question, she could feel that part of her tightening up 
and then spreading out again. She could feel that the sadness had 
something to do with being invalidated. But when she checked with her 
body if those words were right, they weren't. 

"That's not it," she said to herself. "It's ..." Along pause. "It's not being 
believed!" 



A flood of memories came into her head of all the conversations she had 
had with her friend about how difficult her job was, what a tyrant the 
boss was. Jan realized some part of her felt that if her friend was trying 
for the job now... "It's like she didn't believe what I said!" 

After this realization came a feeling of relief and the uneasy, weird feeling 
simply lifted. That was what it was, and there was no need to do anything 
about it now. Jan didn't even have to decide to let it go; it had already 
released, and in its place was a warm, comfortable, open feeling. 

Forming a better relationship with the inner Critic 

Darrell was starting a course of study that would lead to a new career, one 
that he felt would bring him more satisfaction and fulfill some of his 
lifelong goals. But he was over forty, and whenever he was about to take 
action in connection with his courses, such as calling the school to find 
out the class schedule, he heard an inner voice whispering "It's too late. 
You've wasted too much time already." 

He tried to quiet this voice by telling himself it wasn't true, many people 
went back to school at his age. But the voice didn't stop, and the tension 
in his stomach got tighter. He told friends about his worries, and they 
responded by telling him the same things he was telling himself: "It's not 
too late! It's never too late." This did not help either. 

So Darrell did Focusing with this issue. He sat down and brought his 
awareness into his body. Then he invited his body to give him the whole 
feel of going back to school. He became aware of a lot going on. There was 
not just one feeling, but two or three. 

He asked himself, "What's first?" and sensed an excitement in his solar 
plexus area. He checked the word "excitement," and that was right. He 
said hello to the excitement, and it sharpened. It was as ifit said, "Yes! I'm 
here!" 

Then he asked, "OK, what else is here?" and waited. Slowly he began to 
sense a shyer feeling, hiding behind the excitement. The word that came 
was "hesitant." He checked the word "hesitant" with the feeling, and that 
was partly right. After a moment he also got the word "careful." 



Darrell said hello to the hesitant, careful feeling. As he did, he heard his 
inner Critic saying, "You've already wasted too much time!" He said to 
himself, "There's a part of me that feels I've wasted too much time ... and 
I'm saying hello to that, too." Instead of listening to what the voice was 
saying, he sensed its feeling. "Is it scared of something?" he asked. Yes, he 
felt fear tinged with sadness. "It's scared I might never get what I want." 
With this he felt a releasing in his body, an inner "Yes, that's right." So he 
acknowledged the fear. The inner Critic faded, and once again he felt both 
the excitement and the hesitant, careful feeling. 

Then he asked himself if it felt right to stay with both feelings for a while, 
or if one feeling was drawing him more. It felt right to stay with both. It 
felt right that neither feeling would "win," or be more important than the 
other. So he stayed with both. He said to himself, "I'm letting both the 
excitement and the hesitant, careful feeling just be here right now." 

At first he felt a sort of pulling back and forth, as if the two feelings were 
vying for his attention. But then there was a change. His breathing 
relaxed, and he felt a settling down in his body. He felt something new in 
the presence and the relationship of these two feelings, and after a 
moment he was able to put this into words. It was as if the excitement 
and the hesitant, careful feeling had become partners. They were like two 
pillars, one on each side of his body, holding him, giving him strength. 
One part held the wisdom of right timing, and the other part held the 
excitement of moving forward. 

Under the image of the pillars, at the center of his body, he could feel his 
fear of not getting what he wanted from a career, and he could feel how it 
was soothed and supported by the two partners: the wisdom of right 
timing and the excitement of moving forward. He asked the fear what it 
wanted, and the answer was, 'To really feel I'm using my talents to make a 
contribution to the world." 

He asked his body to show him how it would feel if he knew, right now, 
that he would be able to use his talents to make a contribution to the 
world. In the center of his body a warm, expansive feeling began to 
spread, and grow. He invited it to be there as fully as it wanted to be, and 
spent the rest of his session enjoying and getting acquainted with the 
positive feelings that came. 



The inner Critic is always afraid of something. You can disarm its attacks 
by asking, gently, "What are you afraid of?" After you have received the 
answer to that question, you can ask, "What do you want?" For more 
about the inner Critic see Chapter Eight. 

Any fear can be asked what it wants. This allows you to feel the positive 
energy hidden inside the fear. "I'm afraid I’ll be too tired" might become 
"I want to have energy." "I'm afraid people won't like my work" might 
become "I want my work to be appreciated." See if you can feel the 
difference between the two statements in each pair. Both may be true, but 
the second has a positive quality that allows forward movement. So first 
acknowledge fear, and then ask what it wants. 

After you have sensed what the fear wants, ask your body to show you 
what it would like to have that desire fulfilled now, or what it would be 
like to know now that you will be able to have it fulfilled in the future. You 
might still be afraid, but now you can also feel the positive energy that 
comes from receiving what you want. 



Chapter Eight - 
T roubleshooting 

By now you've tried Focusing a few times. If it has been easy and 
productive for you, bless you! (You are unusual.) Most people encounter 
sticky spots as they rediscover this skill which revolutionizes our cultural 
training. This chapter will help you with some of the difficult places you 
might be encountering. 

"I have a hard time getting a felt sense." 

I remember when I was first learning Focusing there was an exercise in 
which we were instructed to bring our awareness into our bodies and 
notice what we felt. I was enormously frustrated. Nothing! I felt like I was 
a total blank. I didn't feel anything and I didn't know how to feel 
anything. I was ashamed of my inadequacy, depressed that I might never 
learn this, and anxious that the cute boy across the room might never 
want to focus with me. Feeling nothing, eh? As you can tell, I was actually 
feeling a lot! But I wasn't acknowledging my feelings. They weren't what I 
expected, or what I thought I was supposed to find, so they just didn't 
count. 

If you try Focusing and get a blank, here are some helpful hints. Many of 
them have to do with including something you might have been ignoring. 

Maybe you feel something positive. You might be diligently looking for 
tightness or heaviness, or something else uncomfortable or unpleasant, 
and go right past what is there: something positive, like peacefulness, 
expansiveness, openness, or warmth. Felt senses can feel good! If you're 
expecting to feel bad, you might think you feel "nothing," when actually 
you do feel something, but it's something good. 

Ask yourself, in your body, "Do I possibly feel something positive?" "Do I 
feel wonderful in my body right now?" Then be open to all sensation- 
tight or relaxed, heavy or light, contracted or expanded. Notice if there's a 
difference between how your chest feels and how your stomach feels. 



Notice if your throat feels different from either your chest or your 
stomach. Sometimes it's possible to feel differences even when it’s hard to 
say what the differences are. 

Maybe you feel something subtle. Felt senses can be quite subtle. As 
inheritors of Western industrial culture, we haven't been taught to attend 
to subtle sensation. When I was growing up, you ignored your body as 
long as you could, and when you couldn't ignore it any more, you took a 
pill or went to the doctor. If our bodies have to shout to get our attention, 
they will do that. But wouldn't it be better to listen to our bodies while 
they're still whispering, before they have to shout? 

It can take a while to learn to feel subtle sensation in the body. You need 
to tune your awareness down to that level. It's as if you took a person 
who's been listening to only loud music and seeing only bright colors, and 
set her down in a beautiful forest. At first she says, "Gee, it's boring here! 
Nothing is happening!" But in a little while, if she cares to, she begins to 
notice that something is happening, and that there are sounds. After a 
little longer she discovers that the forest is endlessly fascinating, but only 
after she has tuned her awareness to be able to sense what is going on 
there. 

So when you try Focusing, be sure to be open to subtle sensation. Don't 
be like the person who told me that he felt nothing in an exercise. When 1 
asked him to give me more detail about his experience, he said, "Well, 
first I felt sort of a Httle shaky feeling in my throat, but I decided it wasn't 
strong enough so I looked for something else. Then I felt what might 
possibly have been a tightness in my stomach, but it could just have been 
from the way I was sitting, so I looked for something else. Then I felt 
what might have been an expansive feeling in my heart area, but I 
decided I was probably just making that up because I'd like to feel that 
way. Then nothing more happened, so I opened my eyes, and told you I 
felt nothing!" 

Give your felt senses the benefit of the doubt. If they might be there, 
assume they are there. And see what happens! 

Maybe you feel something hard to describe. Your felt sense may be 
definitely there, but hard to put into words. Congratulate yourself! This is 



the experience that correlated with successful therapy in the research that 
led to the development of Focusing. People who felt something, but could 
not at first find the words to describe it, were the most likely to have 
successful outcomes in therapy. 

It's really worth the time it takes to slowly find the words to fit the felt 
sense. Our culture does not teach us to honor the slow process of finding 
the right words for a vague sensation. There's a premium on speed and on 
being "articulate," which means having the words come quickly, whether 
or not they are true. Thus we betray ourselves by continually turning 
away from inner truth toward something easier to say, easier to explain. 

If you feel something hard to describe, try using my favorite word 
"something" to acknowledge it. "I'm feeling something." This positive 
acknowledgment will make it easier to stay with what you are feeling, 
even if other descriptions are elusive. Then let yourself look for 
expressions like "kind of..." or "sort of..." or combinations of words like 
"sticky-furry" or "jumpy-nauseous-excited." Remember, it isn't finding 
the right description that matters, it's the process of inner attention. 

"I can't focus on one thing; there are too many things going on." 

There may be many things that want your attention today. It is as if you 
have walked into a room and everyone is shouting for your attention. If it 
feels like chaos when you bring your awareness into your body, you may 
want to do a Focusing process called "clearing a space." 

In clearing a space you acknowledge each "something" as you become 
aware of it, without going into it. Say hello to each one, and imagine 
asking each one to find somewhere safe to be where you can find it again 
later. You might invite it to go outside of you, onto a shelf nearby, or a 
pillow in front of you. You might need to know a little about what it is, or 
take time to find an image or a descriptive word so that you can find your 
way back to it. You might even write each one briefly in your journal. Let 
each thing know that you are willing to come back and spend more time 
with it later. This helps it to let go of you. Keep asking, "What else needs 
to be acknowledged?" and repeat this process with each issue or feeling 
that comes. 



Eventually—sooner than you'd think—you'll get to a place where nothing 
more comes in answer to a "What else?" question. You'll probably feel 
peaceful and spacious inside. If not, notice if there is a "background 
feeling." This is a feeling that is so constantly there, in the background, 
that we don't even notice it any more. It's like the wallpaper—how often 
do you notice the color of your own wallpaper? It has become normal to 
feel "always tired," or "always pushing," or "always sad," or "always" 
something else. Notice if there is something like this for you. Then ask 
that, too, to find somewhere safe to go, outside of you. 

The most common difficulty in clearing a space is getting into a struggle 
with your feelings, trying to get them to go out onto that shelf when they 
don't want to. They have to let go of you voluntarily. You can invite; you 
can't force. If something keeps clinging to you, try asking it, "What do you 
need right now so that you can wait a while for my attention?" 

"Does Focusing have to be about problems? What if I'm feeling good?" 

Focusing does not have to be about problems. You can have very rich and 
productive Focusing sessions starting with felt senses that feel good, like 
feeling relaxed, warm, open, peaceful, expansive, and so on. When you 
are noticing how your body feels at the beginning of the session, be sure 
to include positive feelings. Don't ignore them as nothing. They're not! 

Treat these positive feelings as you would any felt sense: saying hello, 
finding the right description, and then checking back the description. 
Remember to take time to enjoy and savor these feelings. 

At the question stage, positive feelings often appreciate slightly different 
questions. Try asking, "Is there something you want to show me or give 
me?" or "What do you need in order to be in my life more often?" 

If you get both a positive and a negative feeling at the same time, you 
don't have to choose between them. Just be in the positive feeling, and 
from there, be with the not-so-positive feeling. For example, Bryan felt a 
warmth in his chest and a tightness in his stomach. He acknowledged 
both, then took some time to enjoy the warmth in his chest. He checked 
that "warmth" was the right word. He could sense that the warmth was 
connected to his love and enjoyment of his children. Then, staying in his 



chest, he turned his awareness also to the tightness in his stomach. He 
didn't go into the tightness in his stomach. He stayed in his chest, and 
from there, sensed his stomach. This was like letting the positive feeling 
(warmth) help him be a friend to the not-so-positive feeling (tightness). 
Bryan spent some time listening to what the tightness was about, from its 
point of view. He could use the warmth in his chest to help him find an 
attitude of friendliness and compassion for the tightness in his stomach. 
He discovered that his stomach was tightened with worry about whether 
his children would be all right. When he told his stomach that he heard 
its worry, it began to relax. 

"I often see images when I close my eyes and feel in my body. Are images 
part of Focusing?" 

Images certainly can be part of Focusing. If you take care to use your 
images wisely, they can advance your Focusing process. But there are 
some pitfalls to watch out for. 

It is possible to get seduced by a fascinating series of images so that you 
forget about your body and just watch a sort of inner movie without 
feeling its connection to your body's felt sense. 

When an image comes, notice if it is in your body, or if you seem to be 
seeing it in front of your eyes. This is the crucial question. Images in the 
body are called "body-felt images." Examples are: "I have a moss-covered 
rock in my stomach," or "There is a red rose in my heart." Images in front 
of the eyes are called "visual images." Examples are: "I see my mother's 
face," or "I see a lion pacing up and down in a cage." 

If you have a body-felt image, an image in the body, there's no problem. 
Just treat it as you would any felt sense—say hello to it, sit with it, ask it 
questions if you want to. It's the visual image that might tempt you to get 
out of touch with your body If you have a visual image, show it to your 
body, and ask your body how it feels about this image. Don't discard the 
image, but get a body feeling in addition to the image. If the image wants 
to change, ask again how the body feels. You can have as many images as 
you want, but don't forget to keep coming back to the body and checking 
how it feels. 



Here is an example: Tony started Focusing by bringing awareness into his 
body and asking, "What wants to be known?" Instead of getting a body 
feeling, he got a visual image of a lion pacing up and down in a cage. So 
he asked himself, "As I see that image, how do I feel in my body?" He 
became aware of tightness in his chest. He stayed with the tightness and 
the image, and checked back with his body if the image of a lion pacing 
up and down in a cage fit the feeling of tightness. It did, and he then 
asked if there was a part of his life that was feeling this way He realized 
that he was feeling this way at work. Continuing to be aware of the 
tightness in his chest, he empathized with how the lion was feeling. He 
became aware that the lion was feeling trapped and restless. He checked 
the words "trapped" and "restless" with the tightness in his chest, and 
they fit well. The session continued in this way, with Tony continuing to 
be aware of the image and body feeling, either of which might change in 
the process. 

"What if I never get images? Can I still do Focusing?" 

There seem to be people who get images easily, and others who don't. 

This has nothing to do with whether you can do Focusing. You can do 
Focusing successfully for the rest of your life and never get a single image. 
// images come, they can and should be included, but they are not 
required. 

"What if I ask my felt sense what it needs, and it needs something I can't 
give it, or something I don't want to give it?" 

Asking what your felt sense needs does not imply any promise that you 
can or will give it what it is asking for. Action needs to be clearly 
separated from any process of feeling and awareness. John is an example 
of a person who had not separated action from feeling. When I asked him 
if it would be OK to allow himself to feel his anger, he replied, "No, 
because if I feel my anger, I'll smash every window in this place." John 
had not yet discovered how to feel without acting. 

When you ask your felt sense what it needs, your purpose should be to 
hear how it feels and to allow it to be fully understood. Whether or not it 
ever gets what it needs is another question, separate from knowing what 
it needs. 



When you are Focusing, you are in touch with an ever-changing process. 
What feels right at this moment may evolve into something else in the 
next moment. That's why it doesn't make sense to get too involved in a 
particular step. If your inside place asks for something impossible, or 
illegal, or dangerous, don't say to it, "I can't do thatV You will stop your 
process. Don't even get into the issue of whether what it wants is going to 
happen. Instead, acknowledge that it wants that, and ask to hear more. 

Let's say I'm Focusing on what's needed in my life, and I get a feeling that 
what would be just right would be to get on a plane today and fly to 
Tahiti. One possible response is to tell my body all the reasons why that 
isn't a good idea. But that won't help me move forward. So I'll just 
acknowledge that feeling, and listen to it, and invite it to say more. Maybe 
next I sense that what is so right about Tahiti is that I could completely 
relax, with no obligations. Then I ask my body for more about that. In a 
little while I find out that my present life really does feel full of 
obligations, and I hadn't been acknowledging that feeling. I then feel 
relief—and no more need to go to Tahiti. (But perhaps now my need is to 
give myself more personal relaxation time.) 

So remember not to get into an argument with your body. You don't have 
to do what it says, and you don't have to say no either. If it wants 
something, just say, "I hear you," and keep listening. 

Yet the other side of the coin is that avoiding action steps can be a block 
to Focusing. If your process tells you, over and over, that some course of 
action is right, and you don't actually get out there and do it, you won't 
ever move to the next step in your Focusing. This is because Focusing is 
not separate from life; it's part of life, and sometimes an action in your 
life is the next step that moves your Focusing process forward. 

For example, you are Focusing on what to do to move your business 
forward, and what comes is that you could call up the local public access 
cable station and find out how to get on TV But you don't do it. So the 
next time you sit down to focus on the same question, the same answer 
comes. Of course you can focus on what's in the way of making the call. 
But at some point, you have to take action for that part of your life to 
move forward. 



The action doesn't have to be the big step that your inner Critic demands 
you take. It's better to ask your body for a step forward that feels possible, 
even if it's a small one. I heard a story of a man who focused on how 
lonely he was, and how hard it was to meet people. He asked his body 
what would be a positive step forward. The answer was, "It's too scary to 
actually attend a dance at the school, but I could call and find out when 
they are." So he did that. The next week he focused and his body said, 

"It's too scary to actually go into the dance, but I could go and peek in the 
door." So he did that. The next week he went in for one song ... and so on. 
By the end of the semester he was meeting people and having a good 
time. 

"When I'm Focusing, I start feeling bad about myself." 

Your inner Critic is the harsh voice that attacks you with shaming 
accusations like "What makes you think you're any good?" 'Tou'll fail at 
this just like you've failed at everything else!" "People will never like you 
if you don't quit being so selfish!" "What a stupid way to feel!" "You're so 
inarticulate!" And on and on. Take a moment to remember what your 
inner Critic sounds like and feels like. You have one; we all do. 

Being under "Critic attack" can feel very bad. Your whole body may feel 
beaten up as you reel under the accusations of badness and wrongness 
that are coming at you from this unloving inner voice. A very big part of 
you believes this is true; you are bad, you are wrong. The first step to 
getting out from under is identifying what is happening. Try saying, 
'That's my Critic." Try saying hello to your inner Critic. 

Once you have identified your inner Critic as a part of you rather than the 
Voice of Truth, you may be tempted to try to get rid of it. And you may 
well be able to push it away, for now. But the relief of pushing it away will 
be only temporary, because you haven't really resolved anything. 

Think of the Critic as an unhealed part of you that has been cut off from 
love and acceptance. It speaks harshly because it has been unloved for so 
long. It needs to be integrated and included into your life, not cut off even 
more. But what needs to be integrated is what is under the critical voice, 
which is not criticism, but feeling. 



The Critic is always afraid of something. After you have said hello to it, try 
asking it, gently and compassionately, "Is there something you're afraid 
of?" When it expresses its fears, just hear ther- A Don't try to respond, 
other than to say, "I hear you." Then ask, "And what are you wanting?" By 
doing this, you will receive the Critic's gifts, and release yourself from its 
attacks. (See the section on "Forming a better relationship with the inner 
Critic" in Chapter Seven.) 

"What if I'm just making this up?" 

The Doubter is the voice that tells you, during Focusing, that your 
experience isn't real, that you're making it up, or that nothing is 
happening. Sound familiar? Most people bump up against this 
questioning inner voice sometime in their Focusing, and those of us who 
try to rule our hves by logic tend to hear it even more. Focusing teacher 
Barbara McCavin calls the Doubter "the part of you that wants to make 
sure that all your experience is real." 

Making sure all your experience is real is a worthy cause. The problem is, 
the Doubter isn't raising this question in a way that's likely to be helpful. 
As far as the Doubter is concerned, if something can be doubted, then it 
doubts it! "But I could be making all this up out of my imagination. How 
do I know I'm not?" 

The Doubter cannot resolve the doubts it raises. It doesn't have the tools. 
It doesn't know any way to confirm the realness of the experience that it's 
doubting; it only doubts. But Focusing does have a way to confirm your 
experience: coming back into your body, and checking there. 

If the Doubter comes up at the beginning of the session and doubts 
whether you're getting a real felt sense, try saying to yourself, "Anything 
is something." Don't try to analyze or prejudge whether you've got the 
"right" felt sense or a "real" felt sense. Just be with whatever you are 
aware of, and follow it. You'll get somewhere—trust me! 

The Doubter may come up in the middle of the session and doubt if what 
yoii're getting is "really" from the felt sense, or from your head or your 
imagination. Just check whatever you're getting back with your body and 
see if it feels right. Remember: it doesn't matter where it came from. 



What matters is, does it feel right? 


The Doubter may even come at the end of your Focusing session. In one 
class a woman had a remarkable session, with shift after shift. After it was 
over she opened her eyes and said, "It's too bad this doesn't work for me." 
Everyone's jaw dropped! That was the Doubter at its worst. If you let it, it 
would be glad to wipe out whatever you receive from Focusing. Just 
remember: the Doubter does not tell the truth. It doubts whatever can be 
doubted. Come back to your body; that's where the truth is. 

"When I ask the felt sense questions, my head answers." 

When you ask a question of a felt sense in your body, your head (that is, 
your logical thinking capacity) may answer instead. Logical answers tend 
to come quickly rather than slowly, and they tend to be what you already 
know rather than something new or surprising. 

If you get a quick answer to a question you're asking in your body, thank 
your head for the help and ask it to wait till later, and then ask the 
question in your body again. 

But if a thought comes into your mind after you have been with the sense 
for a while, check with the sense to see if it fits. This may be the way your 
answer wanted to come to you, this time. You don't need to know before 
you check with your body if the right words came; that's what checking 
with your body is for. See the previous section on the inner Doubter. 

"I get impatient with my Focusing process." 

Impatience can result in rushing the inner process—and that is a block to 
Focusing. Be sure to notice if you are approaching your felt sense with a 
quality of impatience, annoyance, or hurry. If you are, acknowledge that. 
See if you can have both the feeling and the impatience about it—in 
different places. If necessary, you may want to focus on the impatience 
itself. One woman discovered a memory of her father saying, "If you 
won't tell me what you're crying about, I'll give you something to cry 
about!" She had taken that inside and was approaching any felt sense 
with the attitude of, "Tell me what you're about right now, or else!" 
Naturally this made Focusing more difficult. But after this realization, the 
impatient quality eased and she was able to allow her senses more time to 



be unknown and unclear "I'm afraid of what I might find out" 


If you're afraid of what you find in your body, or of what you might find, 
there's a special move that's very helpful. Of course, just telling yourself 
not to be afraid probably won't help. But what you can do is turn toward 
your fear and focus on that. Bring your gentle, compassionate awareness 
to the part of you that's afraid; sit down with it and ask it to tell you more 
about how it feels. 

There are two possible blocks here: to think you have to stop Focusing 
because there is fear and to think you have to push past the fear in order 
to get anywhere. Actually, by spending time with the fear you aren't 
missing anything; you are Focusing exactly where your body needs you to 
be. 

Imagine you are standing with a child in front of a closed door. You want 
to open the door and go in; she is scared. You wouldn't force her to go, 
and you don't have to give up on going. Just kneel down beside her, put 
your arm around her, and say, "Please let me know what's so scary, 
honey." That's exactly the way to treat fear. 

"What if I get two felt senses at once?" 

It may well happen that you will get two felt senses at the same time (or 
even more than two), usually in different parts of your body. In this case 
it is important to respect and allow room for both, because both are 
important. 

First, say hello to each one. 

Next, ask this question in your body "Does it feel right to stay with both 
for a while, or is one of them calling me more right now?" Even if one of 
the senses is calling you to be with it first, you will probably eventually 
spend time with the other one as well, and it's good to acknowledge that. 

"I lose concentration; it's hard to stay with the process." 

Losing concentration while Focusing is one of the most common 
difficulties reported to me. Your mind wanders, you "space out," you 
forget what you were doing, you daydream, you start thinking about your 



day ahead... and then you catch yourself and your inner Critic comes in, 
'This is hopeless! I can never do this Focusing! I might as well give up!" 


I will show you a number of techniques for keeping your concentration 
while Focusing. Most of them involve being active in some way. The 
classic Focusing posture is similar to meditation: sitting up, eyes closed, 
attention silently inward. But there are more active ways to do Focusing, 
and you may find one of the other ways to be easier for you than the 
"classic" one. 

Speaking 

You can speak out loud while you are Focusing and listen to yourself. 
You'll hear yourself through another channel—your ears— and be able to 
check back your words more easily. The very act of putting your 
experience into words you say out loud will help you hold concentration. 
Have you ever had to count a large number of objects? Perhaps you 
noticed that if you counted out loud, you were better able to remember 
where you were in the counting. The principle here is the same. Say 
things like, "I'm feeling tightness in my chest right now." Then notice if 
what you said feels right, and continue from there. 

You can also speak into a tape recorder. This gives you something to talk 
to, whether or not you ever play it back. If you do play it back, you might 
notice how your body feels as you do so. 

jNriting 

Focusing combines well with another helpful method of self-exploration: 
keeping a journal. To use Focusing in combination with writing, have a 
piece of paper or a Focusing journal in front of you as you focus. Write 
down key words like the description, the questions you're asking, and 
whatever else feels important. If you lose your concentration, just open 
your eyes and read the last thing you've written. 

Having a continuous record of your Focusing sessions can help you see 
the progress you're making and remember key insights that were 
important. Even if you don't write during the session, you may want to 
write in your Focusing journal afterward, so you have a record of your 
inner work. 



Some people are comfortable with writing continuously while Focusing, 
in handwriting or at the computer. It might go something like this: "How 
am I in my body right now? I had a hard day today and my chest is feeling 
very tight about it. Let me see, is it tight? No, it's more like there's a 
pressure inside. That makes me think of all the things I'm feeling 
pressure about in my work. That report is overdue but I can't get into it; 
I'm just not convinced it's important. Is that what the pressure in my 
chest is about? No, that doesn't fit; it's something else..." 

Drawing or painting 

Especially if your felt senses have a visual quality, try drawing what you 
see and feel in your body. Use a medium you are comfortable with: 
waiercolors, crayons, pastels, pencil, pen ... You might even want to 
sculpt in clay the shape you are feeling inside. 

As you draw, compare the drawing to the feeling, noticing if it feels right. 
Go ahead and change the drawing as necessary, to fit the feeling. After a 
session, some people draw images or symbols that were important during 
the session and record them in a Focusing journal. 

Taking a walk 

You don't have to sit still to Focus. You can take a walk, or do the dishes, 
or perform any routine task that doesn't take much attention. I like this 
way of Focusing, myself. If I lose concentration, 1 don't let loose the inner 
Critic on myself, because I'm not "supposed" to be Focusing. I'm simply 
taking a walk, and any Focusing that I do is extra! I can stop to admire a 
beautiful flower, or look both ways at an intersection, and then come back 
to the felt sense that I was spending time with. I find that the physical 
activity can actually refresh and enhance my Focusing, i 

Focusing with a friend A 

By far the ideal way to hold concentration is to focus with a I 
friend—and that's what the next chapter is about. \ 



Chapter Nine - Focusing with a 

Friend 


You are now well on your way to doing Focusing wherever you need to. 
You do not need another person's help in order to focus. However, like 
many activities in life. Focusing is even more fun when you do it with a 
friend, and often more productive as well. The remaining three chapters 
of this book are about how to do Focusing with another person. In this 
chapter we learn how to focus with a friend. In the next chapter we see 
how to bring Focusing into your practice if you are a psychotherapist and, 
in the final chapter, how to bring Focusing into your therapy if you are a 
client. 

Focusing partnerships 

When you and a friend agree to practice Focusing together, you are 
forming a Focusing partnership, a relationship of equal exchange. It isn't 
like therapy, where one person gets paid and the other person gets the 
attention. In a Focusing partnership, you and your friend will divide the 
time equally and take turns in two roles. 

The two roles are the "Focuser" and the "listener," the companion of the 
Focuser. When you get together for your Focusing partnership, one 
partner is the listener and the other is the Focuser. Then, in the second 
part of your Focusing time, you switch roles. 

The main difference from Focusing alone will be that you, as the Focuser, 
are going to speak out loud, describing at least some of the things you are 
feeling and at least some of the steps you are going through. You will 
probably find that speaking out loud helps you to concentrate on your 
Focusing and to not drift away. But if you ever feel that speaking is going 
to interrupt your Focusing instead of helping it, don’t speak. Your 
responsibility is to your Focusing process, not to entertaining the listener. 

Now let's talkebout what the listener does. 



Being present 


Being the listener involves, first of all, being present as yourself. Sit 
comfortably across from your friend and let go of having any agenda for 
this person. You don't need them to change; you don't need them to have 
a "good" session. Your job is just to be there. One way we say this in my 
classes is "holding the space." Your job is to hold the space. 

As the listener, it's good to take some time to bring awareness into your 
body. Feel the contact of your body with the chair, be aware of the middle 
area of your body, throat, chest, stomach, and abdomen. If you have felt 
senses right now, say hello to them. Let them know their turn will come a 
little later. 

Now turn your attention to your friend, the Focuser. In a moment she will 
begin to speak, and then you will begin to say back what you hear. Invite 
into yourself an attitude of appreciation for the jewel that this person is. 
Let your consciousness be like a quiet pool of water that is waiting to 
reflect the realness of your friend's process. 

You are not the expert! 

As a companion to another person's Focusing process, the hardest thing 
to remember—and the most important—is that you are not the expert. 
You are not the healer. You are not the fixer of this person's life. 

If you're like most of us, this will be a rather new sensation. We're used to 
listening to our friends' problems and then offering suggestions. We're 
supposed to be "helpful." We feel we ought to get involved and shoulder a 
part of our friend's burden. 

And there are times when this is appropriate. For example, my friend 
might be telling me his difficulties finding a good dentist, and I happen to 
know an excellent one. 

But in helping someone else do Focusing, the attitude of "fixer" sinnply 
doesn't help at all. You'll get in the way of the process, and you'll wear 
yourself out, too. It's much more relaxing, and actually much more 
helpful, to sit back and remember that the person who's Focusing is the 
one responsible for the session—and for his life. You are the companion. 



Your job is to be present. 

Practical listening 

As the companion to a person who is Focusing, your first job is to h A 
present. Your second job is to listen. 

You may find that listening is hard—and new. How often do we just 
listen, without also thinking, analyzing, judging, or planning what we're 
going to say in response? You may discover that you're out of practice as a 
listener. If so, you'll almost certainly find that listening will be very 
rewarding to you. Among other things, it clears your mind of clutter! 

But I hope I can convince you that listening is also easy. It's simple, it's 
restful, it's very much in present time. Listening to another person who is 
Focusing is one of the most meditative things that I do. Practical listening 
is listening in such a way that your partner knows you are listening, and 
can use your listening to further her Focusing process. This simply means 
saying back or reflecting some of what your Focusing partner is saying. 
When your partner says, "\ feel sad," you say, "You're sad." When your 
partner says, "I feel a tightness in my throat," you say, "You have a 
tightness, there in your throat." You are reflecting the words and feelings 
that your Focusing partner needs to hear. 

Probably this will feel a bit strange at first. You may fear that you are 
sounding like a parrot, or a tape recorder. But just wait until you switch 
places with your partner, and it's your turn to focus. Wait until you find 
out how wonderful it feels to have someone say back your words, and 
nothing more, so you have the luxury to explore your feelings further. 
That's when you'll know a good listener is worth her weight in gold! 

The Focuser listens to the listener 

The key to great listening has nothing to do with the expertise of the 
listener. The key to great listening is that the Focuser listens to the 
listener, and checks those words inside to make sure they are right. When 
you are Focusing, you can use the Listener to the fullest by taking the 
listener's words down into your body, down to the place where your 
words first came from. If you feel tightness in your throat, and the 
listener says back "tightness in your throat," don't just be polite and say, 



"Yes, that's what I said." This is no place for politeness! Really check- 
take the word "tightness" back into your throat, and see if that word 
really fits. Maybe it does. Great! That will help you stay with the feeling 
and listen for more. But maybe "tightness" is actually not quite right. 
Maybe it's really "squeezing," or "constriction," or "desperate." Hearing 
your own words back in the listener's voice will help you get closer to 
what is really true for you. 

What to listen for 

When you are the listener, you don't want to say back everything your 
partner said. For one thing, that would be very difficult, especially if he 
said a lot! (Remember, I said listening doesn't need to be difficult. So if 
you're finding it difficult, you're probably working harder than you need 
to!) 

If you don't say back everything, you'll need to choose what to listen for 
and what to say back. Here are some tips on what to listen for. 

Feelings and emotions. Say back your partner's feelings and emotions. 
Feelings can include body words like "tight," "heavy," or "jumpy," and 
emotion words like "scared," "mad," or "joyful." Say back the words by 
themselves, or even better put them in short sentences like, "You feel 
scared," or "That place feels tight." 

Focuser: I'm scared because I don't know whether I'm going to be able to 
finish this project, and there's a lot riding on it. 

Listener: You're feeling scared right now. 

Present time. Say back what your partner is feeling or sensing right now, 
as opposed to what he felt yesterday or last week. 

Focuser: I'm feeling tight across my chest, and it's the same place that 
was feeling so relaxed yesterday. 

The last thing. If your partner says a lot before pausing to let you reflect, 
don't worry, and don't try to remember it all. It's almost always most 
helpful just to say back the last thing he said. 



Focuser: I really don't know what this heaviness in my heart is all about. 
It reminds me of a way that I felt one year in college. I had just broken up 
with my first boyfriend, and 1 was convinced that I would be lonely the 
rest of my life. Oh! I see! It has to do with my friend Paula moving away. 
There's something in me that A tjiinks I'll never find a friend as close as 
Paula. 

Listener: There's something in you that thinks you'll never find a friend 
as close as Paula. 

Anything you hear twice. If the Focuser repeats something, that's your 
signal that he really wants to hear that back from you. Say back anything 
you hear twice, even if it's something that isn't emotions, or present time, 
or the last thing. 

Focuser: I'm scared because I don't know whether I'm going to be able to 
finish this project, and there's a lot riding on it. 

Listener: You're feeling scared. 

Focuser: Because there's a lot riding on it. 

Listener: Because there's a lot riding on it! 

Advanced listening 

When you do what I call advanced listening, you are permitted to change 
or add to your Focusing partner's words, just a little, in order to facilitate 
the accepting attitude of Focusing. 

'Tart of you feels ..." Whenever your partner says, "I am ..." or "I feel..." 
you are allowed to say back "Part of you is ..." or "Part of you feels...." 
This is a simple but enormously helpful move that will enable your 
partner to experience her separateness from her feelings, so she won't be 
so easily overwhelmed by them. 

Focuser: I am very sad about all this loss in my life. 


and: 



Focuser: I feel crazy when there are five million things going on at once. 


Listener: Part of you feels crazy when there are five nnillion things going 
on at once. 

"Something." The word "something" is worth its weight in gold to a 
listener, and to a Focuser, too. It enables the listener to be a companion 
to a body awareness that cannot yet be described. It helps the Focuser 
bring awareness to what she does feel, rather than concentrating on what 
she doesn't know. 

Focuser: I don't know what to call this feeling in my throat. 

Listener: You're feeling something in your throat. 

Remember: "I don't know" is in the head. '1 feel something" is in the 
body. Whenever you hear your Focuser say "I don't know," see if you can 
reflect "you feel something." Another example: 

Focuser: I don't know what this part of me is scared of. 

Listener: This part of you is scared of something. 

Putting a gentle emphasis on the word "something" helps to indicate that 
it's pointing to a real experience, not just holding an empty place in the 
sentence. You are in essence inviting the Focuser to feel into the 
something that is there. 

Guiding 

Sometimes your partner's Focusing process needs something more than 
listening. Then you can do some guiding. Guiding is making suggestions 
like "Maybe you could notice how you're feeling in your body right now." 
Suggestions can help support your partner's Focusing. Remember: you 
can make suggestions about the Focusing process, but not about your 
partner's life! 

The other thing to remember is that even if you're guiding, you still are 
not the expert, or the healer, or the fixer You are still there as the 
companion for your partner's Focusing process. And your partner is still 



the ultimate judge of what is helpful. So if you offer a guiding suggestion, 
always be willing for your partner to say, "Actually, I don't want to do that 
right now." And be glad that he is in touch with what he wants! 

Probably the easiest way to guide is to hold in your hand a version of the 
Focusing phrases that we learned in Chapters Four and Five, rephrased 
as suggestions to another person instead of to one's self. But please don't 
simply read these in order! If you feel that a suggestion is needed rather 
than just listening, use your intuition to choose the one suggestion that 
might be appropriate, and then go back to listening for a while. 

Guiding Phrases 

"Take some time to sense into your body." 

"You might ask in there, 'What wants my awareness now?' (or 'How am I 
about that issue?')" 

"Take some time to say hello to that." 

"You might notice what's the best way to describe that." 

"Notice if it's OK to just be with this right now" 

"You might sit with it, with interested curiosity." 

"Take some time to sense how it feels, from its point of view." 

"You might ask if it has an emotional quality." 

"You might ask it, 'What gets it so ?'" Fill in the 

appropriate emotion or description word. 

"You might ask it what it needs." 

"You might ask your body to show you how 'all OK' would feel." 

"See if you'd like to check if it's OK to stop soon." 

"You might tell it that you'll be back." 



"Take some time to thank your body and the parts that have been with 
you." 

Now I'll say more about some of the specific guiding suggestions. 

"Take some time to say hello to that/’ 

The single most helpful phrase in guiding is this one: 'Take some time to 
say hello to that." If you add only one guiding suggestion to your 
partnership, let it be this one. Another way to say it is, "See if it's OK to 
say hello to that." "That" refers to a felt sense or feeling of some kind. 

Focuser: I'm feeling a tight place in my chest, connected with the 
presentation tomorrow. 

Listener: There's a tight place in your chest. 

Focuser: It feels scared. 

Listener: A scared feeling. See if it's OK to say hello to that. 

What's wonderful about this suggestion is that it reminds you and your 
partner that being is the essence of Focusing. If you're tempted to solve 
the problem or be helpful, or if your partner is tempted to make an effort 
to fix things up in the inner world, "See if it's OK to say hello to that" is a 
reminder to let go of fixing and solving and simply come into contact with 
the feeling, just as it is right now. 

Focuser: "There's a big, anxious feeling about my work." 

Listener: "You're sensing a big, anxious feeling there, about your work." 
Focuser: "I'm trying to think what I can do to make it feel better." 
Listener: "See if it's OK to just say hello to that anxious feeling." 

Coming back to the body 

It's easy to lose contact with body awareness at various points during the 
Focusing process, and it's great to have a listening partner who can 



remind you to bring awareness back to your body when you need that. 


When would you do this? One good time is when your partner says she 
feels lost. (In these examples we're assuming that the Focuser feels lost in 
relation to the Focusing process itself. The listener would respond 
differently if the Focuser says she's lost in relation to her life or a life 
issue.) 

Focuser: Listener: or: Focuser: 

I don't know where I am now. 

Maybe you could just sense how you are in your body. 

I feel lost. 

Listener: You might just notice how your body is feeling now. 

There are three other good times to remind your Focusing partner to 
sense in her body. People can sometimes get drawn away from body 
awareness by thoughts, images, and even emotions. 

Thoughts 

Focuser: I have this angry feeling in my gut. 

Listener: You're aware of an angry feeling. 

Focuser: I'm thinking it really isn't important; there's no reason to be 
angry. 

Listener: And maybe you could just notice how your body is feeling right 
now. 

Images 

Focuser: I see a flowing pattern of light. It's wide at the top and bottom 
and narrow in the middle. There are sparkles all through it. 

Listener: There's a flowing pattern of light with sparkles. 



Notice if this is the right time to sense how all that is feeling in your body. 

Emotions 

Focuser: I'm very sad today. 

Listener: See if it's OK to sense where in your body you're feeling so sad. 
The feeling about the feeling 

If the Focuser is not able to hold an inner attitude of friendship and 
acceptance, he needs to move his awareness to the part that can't be 
accepting. Whenever the Focuser has a feeling of not accepting or not 
liking what's there, then that is what should receive his accepting 
attention. 

Focuser: I'd like to push this away. 

Listener: Maybe you could just say hello to that feeling of wanting to push 
this away, or: 

Focuser: I'm angry with this sad feeling. 

Listener: See if it's OK to just be with the anger. 

Suggesting helpful questions 

If your Focusing partner asks you for help in thinking of a good question 
to ask her felt sense, don't panic. Any question you suggest will be 
helpful. If the question you suggest isn't the right question for this person 
at this moment, hearing it will probably help her sense what is the right 
question. 

Remember, asking questions of the felt sense comes after describing the 
felt sense, checking back the description, and seeing if it's OK to just be 
with it. The most common reason for getting nothing in answer to an 
inner question is that it was asked too soon. 

Here are three of the most helpful questions to ask the felt sense: 



• "You might notice if this has some emotional quality." (If you haven't 
heard an emotion word yet.) 

• "You might ask it what gets it so ." Fill in the blank with the emotion 
word that the Focuser has already used. 

• "You might ask it what it needs from you right now." 

Whenever possible, use the Focuser's key words in the questions you 
suggest. 

Focuser: It's very sad. 
or: 

Focuser: Listener: 
or: 

Focuser: Listener: 

Something is pressing on me in here. 

Notice if you'd like to ask it, "What's so important to it about pressing on 
you?" 

Part of me is angry about the situation at work. 

See if it would be right to ask it, "What is it about the situation at work 
that gets it the angriest?" 

Notice that the listener does not ask questions. The listener suggests that 
the Focuser ask the question. The listener's questions will bring the 
Focuser out of herself. Suggestions and listening responses will help her 
stay in her inner process. 



Chapter Ten 

Especially for Therapists 

If you're a therapist reading this book, you've probably already been 
thinking about how an awareness of the Focusing process can enhance 
your work with your clients. You don't have to become a "Focusing 
therapist" in order to bring in Focusing as another aspect of your 
practice. You've probably studied a number of different techniques and 
methods already and use whatever is appropriate to each client's needs. 
Awareness of the Focusing process can be another one of your tools. 

"Easy" clients and "tough" clients 

As a therapist, you have some clients whose sessions are always a treat to 
look forward to. No matter how tough their life is, they always get some 
movement and clarity in the session. Both of you feel good when the 
session is over, satisfied and pleased with the progress made. 

Then you have other clients who seem stuck, both to themselves and to 
you. You don't see movement and change, either in their sessions or their 
lives. They ask you, "Shouldn't something more be happening?" and you 
reassure them, and yourself, that sometimes change is slow, and patience 
is necessary. But those are not the clients you look forward to. When you 
get a cancellation from this type of client, some part of you feels relief. 

It is quite true that sometimes change is slow, and patience is necessary. 
But often the painfully slow process of these "tough" clients comes from 
the fact that they are out of touch with the source of change. They are 
either in their heads, intellectualizing and analyzing, or they are caught 
up in a cycle of repetitive emotion. 

Thoughts and emotions can accompany change, but they are not the 
source of change. The source of change is the body as sensed in the 
present moment. By the use of subtle and non-intrusive interventions, 
you can help your clients come into contact with the felt sense level of 
experiencing in their bodies. You may not turn all your "tough" clients 



into "easy" ones, but you and your clients will more often feel that 
satisfying sense that "something" is happening, however slowly. 

"And how did you feel about that?" 

A key prerequisite for Focusing is that your clients be in touch with their 
own perspectives, their own points of view, and their own reactions to the 
events they are dealing with. If your client is talking about what other 
people did and felt, and narrating events from an external perspective 
without mentioning her own feelings and reactions, it will be difficult for 
her to get to Focusing from there. Inviting her to feel in her body at that 
point will probably be confusing. 

As a bridge, first help your clients become aware of their own perspective. 
After a story about what other people did, you might ask, "And how was 
that for you?" or "What was your reaction to that?" or "How did you feel 
when that happened?" 

This may take patience. As I'm sure you've already observed, when 
feelings are unfamiliar territory, they don't come easily just because 
they've been invited with one question. In answer to your question, "And 
how was that for you?" your client may reply, "Well, it was just too late. 
There was nothing anyone could do." She is simply not aware that she has 
not yet expressed her own feelings. You will need to gently persist: "Yes, it 
was too late. And you felt—how?" 

Clients who are unfamiliar with the vocabulary of feeling may need this 
process modeled; for example, you may need to guess at their feelings, 
and make sure there is room for them to amend your guess. "I'm 
imagining that you might have felt really sad about that. Would 'sad' be 
right?" 

"And how is that for you right now?" 

Another prerequisite, after being able to access and express feelings, is 
being able to access and express present feelings. 

Client: I've been walking around feeling disappointed all week. 

Therapist: M-hm. Disappointed. 



Client: I like telling people Fm disappointed better than 


telling them I'm depressed. My son has a much easier time with the word 
"disappointed." 

Therapist: I wonder if you are feeling disappointed or depressed right 
now? 

In this excerpt, the client begins by expressing a feeling from his own 
perspective, and it isn't clear whether he is feeling it in the present, 
although he might be. However, he then goes on to talk about his son's 
reaction to the words he uses, rather than pursuing the feeling of 
disappointment in the present. So the therapist intervenes, inviting his 
awareness to what is presently felt. 

Like being able to feel from his own perspective, being aware of present 
feelings might require practice on the client's part, and patience on yours. 

Bringing in the body 

After your client is experiencing feelings in the present time, it's an easy 
and natural step to invite her to notice how her body holds those feelings. 

Therapist: I wonder if you are feeling disappointed right now? 

Client: Yes, I am, actually. 

Therapist: And can you sense maybe where in your body you're feeling 
that disappointed? 

Client: Well... it's mostly in my heart. 

What's next? See the section on "Guiding" in the previous chapter for 
some of the suggestions we've used to help a person stay with a felt sense 
in Focusing. Of course you would adapt them to the needs of your 
circumstances. I've been told by one therapist, for example, that although 
suggesting that someone say hello to a feeling sounds fine in the context 
of a Focusing workshop, it sounds odd as a suggestion in a therapy 
session. (Try instead "You might want to acknowledge that.") 



Here is a possible continuation of the session about the disappointed 
feeling that shows some of the Focusing suggestions you might use. 


Therapist: Ah, yes, you're sensing it in your heart. You might just check if 
the word "disappointed" is still the best word for how it's feeling in your 
heart right now 

Client: (pause, eyes closed) Right now I'm feeling it's very sad right there. 

Therapist: You might see if it's OK to just stay with that feeling of sad in 
your heart. 

Client: (slow tears leak out) It feels good to stay with it. 

Therapist: (after a respectful silence) You might ask that feeling of sad if 
there's something it wants you to know. 

Client: It says ... This sounds funny, but it says it wants me to slow down 
and listen to my own heartbeat! 

Therapist: Ah! 

Client: (more tears) I've been listening so much to other people's voices. 

Therapist: The sad place in your heart says it wants you to slow down and 
listen to your own heartbeat. 

Client: Yes ... Except it isn't sad any more. 

Therapist: How is it feeling now? 

Client: It feels ... There's a lightness in there now. A feeling of 
hopefulness. There's hope. 

Listening 

I'm sure you noticed in the excerpt above that sometimes the therapist 
repeats the client's words. Listening, or active listening, or reflection of 
feeling, or empathic reflection, is taught in many counseling courses and 
is an important aspect of many modes of therapy. Done well, it can be 



enormously facilitative. Done badly, it can make the therapist sound 
mechanical, distant, and unskilled. Naturally, we are only recommending 
that it be done well! 

We've seen that Focusing involves "staying with" an inner awareness. A 
hstening reflection can help the client stay with the feeling or sensation 
that is expressed in the reflected words. See "Practical listening" in the 
preceding chapter. Choosing to reflect present feelings can help the client 
stay with and explore them, instead of moving into self-analysis or self- 
criticism. 

Listening for the "edge” of experience 

In Chapter One I described the research that led to the description of 
Focusing. It was observed that at some point in a session, successful 
therapy clients would slow down their talk, become less articulate, and 
begin to grope for words to describe something they were feeling at that 
moment. You can become a highly effective facilitator of your clients' 
change process if you listen for and encourage these moments, which 
Gendlin refers to as the "edge" of experience. 

Your client probably does not yet understand that these moments of 
groping to describe something presently felt are so valuable. He may 
hurry past them, eager to get to something more clear and explicable. You 
can help him value and stay with these rich sources of inner depth. 

For example, imagine a client saying something like this: "I think it must 
be a kind of denial. I'm feeling ... it's hard to describe ... kind of a wall 
inside. No, that's not quite it. It's ... it's ... I don't know. It's just very 
vague right now. I guess I'm being resistant." 

How might you respond to this segment? Notice the two sentences at the 
beginning and the end: "I think it must be a kind of denial," and "I guess 
I'm being resistant." The words "think" and "guess" as well as the pop 
psych jargon ("denial" and "resistant") are clues that these sentences are 
straight out of the client's head. But the middle of the segment—"I'm 
feeling ... it's hard to describe ... kind of a wall inside. No, that's not quite 
it. It's ... it's ... I don't know. It's just very vague right now."—seems to 
indicate direct contact with a felt sense. As we've seen, felt senses are 



hard to stay with. It takes a lot of faith to value something so vague. This 
is the place where the therapist can help, enormously. Any of the 
following responses would encourage the Focusing aspect of this client's 
process: "Kind of a wall inside, but that’s not quite it," "You're feeling 
something vague," "It feels like something stops you, maybe, or cuts you 
off," or "You might just stay with that feeling that's hard to describe." 

Notice that the first three responses are all types of listening, or 
reflection, and the fourth is a gentle suggestion just to stay with 
something. When you choose to reflect the "edge" of experience, your 
client is encouraged to stay with it. On the other hand, this response 
would not facilitate Focusing in this client: "You think this is a kind of 
denial." Choosing to reflect a mental, analytical statement does not take a 
client more deeply into a Focusing process. 

Appreciating your client’s No 

As you make listening reflections, and guiding suggestions, be sure to be 
open to the possibility that what you are offering won't be quite right for 
your client, won't "fit." Focusing teaches us that it is more important for 
the client to be in a process of inner sensing, and checking with her own 
felt sense, than for the therapist to be right! 

By virtue of your role, your words tend to be given more weight by your 
client than the suggestions of a friend, say. To counterbalance this 
tendency, you might offer occasional suggestions that the client might 
check your words, as well as her own, with her actual body sense. 

Client: I'm feeling really, sort of... trapped, I guess. 

Therapist: It sounds like you might be feeling very helpless. 

Client: I guess so. 

Therapist: You might just check with your body, to see if helpless is right, 
or maybe trapped fits better. 

Client: No, it's neither one ... Uh ... It's more like ... 


Listen especially for the times when your client wants to tell you, "No, 



that's not quite right." Obviously it would miss the point to interpret this 
as resistance or as a transference issue with you. This "no" is not about 
you, certainly not in a negative way. It’s a sign that your client is in touch 
with something that is more than words can capture easily, and trusts you 
enough to take the time to sense that more deeply. If you can welcome 
and appreciate your client's no, you'll be encouraging the fine 
differentiation of experience that moves the Focusing process forward. 

When your client doesn’t feel enough 

Movement and change in therapy can be difficult when your client is out 
of touch with his own feelings. Focusing offers ways to help facilitate 
more awareness of feelings. You'll recognize that you're dealing with a 
person who needs this kind of help when you try a few of the suggestions 
already discussed, and you're met with blankness. 

Client: They really gave me the runaround. 

Therapist: And how did you feel when that happened? 

Client: I felt that they should be prosecuted. 

Therapist: And how are you feeling right now? 

Client: I don't know. 

This is probably not so much a matter of resistance as it is a matter of 
unfamiliarity with the process of feeling itself. Part of your job, then, is to 
facilitate feeling ability. One technique for this is to guide your client 
through a guided exercise in feeling (see "Attune-ment" later in this 
chapter). If you have guided your client into body awareness, and he still 
feels "nothing," there are two techniques which are very likely to be 
helpful: feeling difference, and feeling something positive. 

Feeling difference 

The easiest thing to feel is a difference, because the client doesn't have to 
know what he's feeling, just that it feels different from something else he's 
feeling. 



Client: (after being led through the attunement) It just feels blank all 
through my throat and chest and stomach. 

Therapist: OK. So you might take some time just to notice your throat. 
And then notice if the way it feels blank in your throat feels different from 
the way it feels blank in your chest. 

Client: They feel about the same. 

Therapist: Uh-huh. And now notice your chest. And then notice if the way 
it feels blank in your chest feels different from the way it feels blank in 
your stomach. 

Client: Well, my stomach is actually a little tight... 

Feeling something positive 

Interestingly, when we are asked to notice how we feel, we often tend to 
ignore positive feelings. It's understandable, given the context of therapy, 
that when a client is asked to look for a feeling, he looks for something 
negative or unpleasant. But when the process of feeling needs practice, it 
is just as important to be aware of feelings experienced as pleasant or 
positive. 

Client: (after being led through the attunement) I don't feel anything in 
there, that I'm aware of. 

Therapist: And you might notice if perhaps you're feeling 

something positive in there, like open or relaxed or peaceful. 

Client: Well, actually, I am feeling very open in my chest. 

Therapist: So you might take some time to be with that open feeling in 
your chest. 

Client: Yes, that feels good ... And now I'm noticing that my stomach is a 
little tight... 


When your client feels too much 



Of course strong emotion and cathartic process are welcome in a therapy 
office, as the ubiquitous box of tissues attests. But there are times when 
your client may be experiencing strong or intense emotions in such a way 
that forward movement is blocked. Sometimes this is because the client 
becomes frightened of the intensity of the feeling, and stops it. Other 
times the intensity of the feeling interferes with the client's ability to 
sense fine distinctions, just as music played too loud prevents hearing the 
details of the melody. 

The key that Focusing offers is dis-identification. This is the difference 
between "I am sad" and "Apart of me is sad." Dis-identification gives the 
cHent the ability to experience the feeling just as strongly, but from a 
shghtly different perspective. The client becomes the observer or the 
witness to the feeling, without at all muting or denying its intensity. 

There are a number of techniques that help with dis-identification. 
Inviting a client to notice where in the body she is feeling some emotion is 
actually a dis-identification technique, because her awareness becomes 
more localized. 

Listen for the times when you hear, 'T am ..." as in 'T am sad," "I am 
angry," "I am scared." Invite the client to try out, "Part of me is ..." or 
"Part of me feels ..." instead. 

Client: I'm starting to get overwhelmed. I'm just so terrified! 

Therapist: Can we say there's a part of you that's so terrified? 

Client: It's a big part. 

Therapist: Yes, it's really a big part. 

Client: OK. (takes a big breath) I can say that. It's terrified of... 

Notice that this client goes on to sense more about "terrified" after she is 
able to get a slight perspective on it through dis-identification, and this is 
quite typical. 


See "Being in a relationship with your feelings" and "Being a friend to 
your felt sense" in Chapter Three. 



Starting the session 

Attunement 

You may want to use a Focusing "attunement" at the start of a session, 
especially when the client has said, "I have no idea what I want to work 
on." You can suggest the possibility of using a process to get in touch 
with something, and when the client agrees, say something like this: 

"So you might just take some time to get comfortable in your chair .... 
And just begin letting your awareness come into your body, maybe first 
being aware of your hands ... and your feet... being aware of the contact 
of your body on the chair.... Now let your awareness come inward, into 
the whole inner area of your body that includes your throat, your chest, 
your stomach and abdomen. And just let your awareness rest gently in 
that whole middle area. And maybe give yourself a gentle invitation in 
there, like you're saying, 'What's here now?' or 'What wants my 
awareness now?' And then wait, and when you become aware of 
something, you might let me know." 

Speak slowly, and allow pauses. The pace and tone of your words will 
facilitate your client's process. You may even want to follow along in your 
own body. As you say "Maybe first being aware of your hands," be aware 
of your own hands, and so on. This will give a natural timing to your 
words and help to include your own inner awareness in the therapy 
process. See the section on "The therapist's felt senses" later in this 
chapter. 

Clearing a space 

You can also use a Focusing process called "clearing a space" when a 
client says, "I don't have anything to talk about this week." Clearing a 
space is a way of taking inventory of what is going on. 

Begin in the same way as in the attunement given above. Then, after 
inviting awareness to the whole middle area, ask, "What's in the way of 
feeling really wonderful about how your life is going?" 

As the client identifies each thing, the therapist invites him to 
acknowledge it in som A way, and then set it down for now, like setting 



down something that one is carrying. When the client nods or gives a sign 
that this one is set down, the therapist says, "So now, what else is in the 
way of feeling really wonderful about your life?" If the client has difficulty 
in setting something down, imagery may be helpful, such as, "You might 
imagine you are setting each thing on a table or shelf beside you." 

In this process, the client may naturally move into beginning to work with 
something, and that of course is fine. But if he completes the process of 
setting down everything that comes up and says something like, 'That's 
all," then the therapist can ask him to choose one of those things to work 
with. One way to invite this is to say, "Imagine that there is a magnet in 
the middle of your body so you can feel which one is drawing you the 
most right now." 

See also "1 can't focus on one thing; there are too many things going on," 
in Chapter Eight. 

Facilitating the attitude of gentleness 

One of the gifts of Focusing is that it lets your client have a more gentle 
and accepting relationship with herself. It can be excruciating to hear a 
client reject her own inner experience, the more so when we know that 
this harshness to the self will delay the process of change: "This is a 
stupid way to feel," or'T wish my anger would just go away," or "I'm such 
an inarticulate person." 

The first step to gentleness is dis-identification: "So there's a part of you 
that feels that this is a stupid way to feel," or "So there's a part of you that 
wants your anger to just go away," or "So there's a part of you that feels 
you're an inarticulate person, and doesn't like that." This process alone 
will probably bring something of a shift for the client. 

Then you can invite your client's acceptance of the feeling she was 
rejecting by using language that feels appropriate in your setting, like: "So 
you might see if, just for now, you could allow your anger to be there, 
with the idea that it will change, after you have heard its message." 


If the rejection persists, however, then that becomes the object of 
attention. 



Client: I wish my anger would just go away. 


Therapist: So there’s a part of you that wants your anger to just go away. 
And you might see if, just for now, you could allow your anger to be there, 
with the idea that it will change, after you have heard its message. 

Client: I can't. I don't want to be angry. 

Therapist: OK. So maybe just acknowledge the part of you that doesn't 
want to be angry, and see if there's more about that. 

Client: It feels like ... it feels like if people see I'm angry then they can hurt 
me. 

There might be other moments when, even without the appearance of 
harshness, you get the intuition that inner gentleness would be a welcome 
addition to the process. These are often times when something comes in 
the client that is felt as tender, vulnerable, or raw in some way. 

Client: I'm feeling something right here (points to chest) that feels very 
shy. 

Therapist: (in a gentle tone of voice) Yes. Something is there, and it feels 
very shy. 

Client: (tears) It's feeling very tender and vulnerable right now. 

Therapist: And maybe you could be gentle to that tender and vulnerable 
place, and just let it know that you're with it. 

Facilitating the inner relationship 

The suggestion "And maybe you could be gentle to that tender and 
vulnerable place, and just let it know that you're with it," is an example of 
a very powerful kind of work using Focusing, which is called "facilitating 
the inner relationship." 

This helps your client develop a positive and nurturing relationship with 
his inner self. So you give gentle suggestions to facilitate that 
relationship, such as, "You might let that part of you know that you hear 



it." 

Those familiar with inner child work will see the similarity. The 
difference is that there is no need to personify the felt sense as a child. If 
it feels like a child to the client, that is welcome, but if not, it can still be 
given gentleness, acceptance, and listening. For many people this is easier 
to do than to first experience an inner child and then give it loving 
attention. So you will find people who have difficulty working with an 
inner child but have no difficulty developing a nurturing relationship 
with a shy, sad, or vulnerable felt sense. 

Facilitating action steps 

The process of inner awareness is incomplete if it does not also lead to a 
new way of behaving and living. At the early stages of change it is 
important just to feel how things are. Later, your client will be ready to 
take her new awareness into action in her life. She will tell you when she 
reaches this stage. 

Client: I feel like I'm just rehashing the same things over and over but I'm 
not making any changes. 

Therapist: It sounds as if you're feeling it's time to take some action. Is 
that right? 

Client: Yes, exactly. 

Therapist: How about if you tell me what your intentions are, what you 
would like to see. 

Client: I would like to really open up to my husband more, on an ongoing 
basis. 

Therapist: Is that an intention? 

Client: Well, yes, I know I have to do it. 

Therapist: So it's really a commitment, then? 


Client: Yes. 



Therapist: So you might take some time to notice how that feels in your 
body, if you make that commitment, to open up to your husband more on 
an ongoing basis. Notice how it feels in your body to move forward now 
with that commitment. 

Client: It feels good. Ver} A solid, especially in my arms. 

Therapist: So let yourself just feel that good, solid feeling. And let your 
imagination go forward to the week to come, and notice what specific 
steps come from this commitment and this feeling. 

Focusing and therapy are not separate from life. Human lives are an 
interplay between feeling and action. Our cUents may need to live for a 
while with a new way of being, and with the action that emerges from it, 
before further processing can occur. As Helene Brenner says, "Sometimes 
the answers come through action. Some results don't come about just 
through process." 

Beginning to work in a new way 

The suggestions offered here may be totally consistent with the way you 
already work with your clients, or they may represent somewhat of a shift 
in attitude and language. If you have been working with someone for a 
long time, you may want to introduce a changed way of working by saying 
something like, "Today let's try something different and see how it feels. 
During today's session, I'm going to be inviting you to pay more attention 
to how your body is feeling. Don't worry, there isn't any way to do this 
wrong." 

In most cases, however, there will be no need to introduce the changes 
you are making, because they can be integrated into the way you are 
already working. Your part of a session with Focusing awareness will 
sound almost the same as always, with perhaps a few sentences added. It 
is the client's part of the session that may differ dramatically 

The therapist’s felt senses 

Bringing Focusing into your practice of psychotherapy isn't only about 
your client's felt senses. It's also about your own. Staying present in your 
body during your sessions can be beneficial in a number of ways. 



Enhancing your intuition. As you listen to your client and stay present in 
your body, you may be aware of feelings or images that are not from your 
logical mind. There may be a time when it feels right to share them with 
your client, with the attitude that they may or may not fit, but if they do, 
they may enable the process to take a leap forward. 

Sometimes you may even become aware of felt senses in your body that 
are not yours. This typically happens when your client is not in touch with 
something he is feeling. In such cases, you can invite your client to notice 
the feeling in himself, and when he does, you will almost always feel it 
release in your own body. 

Client: She left me a month ago, and I really don't feel much. 

Therapist: I don't know if this fits for you, but I'm feeling a heaviness in 
my chest. 

Client: Yes, there is sort of a heaviness.... Oh! I had no idea how much 
anger was there! 

Recognizing and acknowledging your own issues. Listening to your client 
is bound to bring up your own issues. Focusing can help you to recognize 
and acknowledge your own feelings and reactions as they are triggered by 
your client's work. In most cases, you will then set these reactions aside 
and save them for a time when you can do your own processing. There 
will also be some times, however, when your relationship with your client 
and his work will be enhanced if you share your personal reactions. In 
either situation, it can be very important to first be aware of what you are 
feeling. 

There was a time in my early forties when I was in a very emotional 
process of deciding whether to have a child. One day I was facilitating the 
Focusing session of a woman who was working on her relationship with 
her fourteen-year-old son. Suddenly tears welled up in me. Gently and 
silently I acknowledged my feelings. In just a moment, I was able to give 
my full attention to the Focuser again. Later, in a Focusing session of my 
own, I explored the meaning of those feelings and realized they were 
about my grief that I might never have such a relationship. 


Facilitating your presence. The ideal therapeutic relationship depends on 



your being present as a human being. Your own style and modality will 
determine how much of your presence you express to your client, and 
how. But your experience of presence, of being here as a person, will 
enhance any mode of therapy you use. Being aware in your body brings 
you into the present moment, into your real, living self—and this is a gift. 

Your clients can grow only as much as you do. Use Focusing for yourself, 
both in your sessions with clients and on your own, and you will enjoy the 
rewards of being a better therapist and a growing person at the same 
time. 



Chapter Eleven - If You’re in 

Therapy 

Now that you know Focusing, you know how to appreciate and honor 
those moments in your inner work when you feel something, even when 
you don't yet know what it is. You know to not skip those moments, to not 
be in a hurry to get to something clearer. These are your places of 
richness, and finding them is like hitting a vein of gold. Psychotherapy is 
an ideal place to get support as you explore these "fuzzy places" with 
Focusing. 

Many people have found that their therapy is more satisfying after they’ve 
learned Focusing. This is true whether or not your therapist has ever 
heard of Focusing, and whether or not you ever mention Focusing in your 
sessions. If you're in psychotherapy now, or if you're thinking of starting, 
here are some ways that Focusing can help your therapy. 

How to train your therapist 

Some of the processes of Focusing may be different from your therapist's 
usual way of working. Now that you know Focusing, you can tell your 
therapist you'd like his or her support in trying something new. You 
might, for example, want to show him or her this book, and explain that 
you would like to try this Focusing process in your work. Or you might 
want to bring in parts of the Focusing attitude, without even mentioning 
Focusing. Here are some specific things you can ask for. 

Starting the session 

How do you start your session now? Do you speak first, or does your 
therapist? Do you talk about what you're feeling right now, or about what 
has happened since your last session, or about something your therapist 
brings up? 


You might want to tell your therapist you would like to start at least some 
of your sessions by closing your eyes and quietly sensing in your body. 



You might say to your therapist that you don't need him or her to say 
anything during this time. You might invite your therapist to ask you, at 
the beginning of a session, if you would like to start this way. You might 
even ask your therapist to guide you through the "attunement" described 
in Chapter Ten. 

One woman reported: "I really like what happens when I remember to 
feel in my body as I start the session. But often I forget to do that. I get 
into telling stories about how my week went. So I asked my therapist if 
she would remind me, by asking 'Do you want to start by sensing your 
body today?' I feel I'm using the session much more productively when I 
start it from inside." 

Times of quiet 

It takes time to sense your body's reaction to something, or to allow a felt 
sense to form, or to find the right words to describe a feeling. Your 
therapy sessions need to have pauses in them, times of quiet, so that you 
can do this inner sensing. 

You can tell your therapist there might be times in a session when you are 
feeling something that takes a Little time to put into words, and say that 
at those times you would like him or her to support you by being quiet 
with you. 

Put bluntly, you are asking your therapist to be willing to shut up 
sometimes! If your therapist isn't willing to do this, ever, listen carefully 
to his or her reasons. They might make sense. But if they don't make 
sense to you, remember you are the person ultimately responsible for 
your own growth. You have a right to ask for what you need, and to either 
get it or understand why not. 

When you’re confused or unclear 

Feeling confused or unclear is a signal to sense in your body. Now that 
you know Focusing, you realize that places of confusion are places of 
great potential. When you hit something fuzzy inside, something hard to 
say or hard to describe, that's the place to stay for a while. 


However, this is easy to forget; when you're confused, what you're mainly 



aware of is confusion! You can enlist your therapist's help to remember. 
You can say to your therapist, "Whenever I'm feeling confused or unclear, 
I'd like to remember to sense in my body then. It would be great if you 
would remind me that I can slow down and just stay with the confusion." 

Feeling free to say "No, that's not quite right." 

Probably you've already noticed that your therapist isn't there to give you 
answers. She or he is there to give you a safe and supportive place to do 
your own inner searching. But it can be very easy to slip into an attitude 
of seeing the therapist as the expert who knows more than you do about 
the way you should be. This is because our society supports an "expert" 
model instead of a "partnership" model in most relationships, and it takes 
courage and consciousness to remember that you are responsible for your 
own life, no matter what. 

The easiest way to remember this, in your therapy, is to check your 
therapist's words with the feeling in your body and then feel free to say, 
"No, that's not it," or "That's not quite right, it's more ..." 

You: I don't know why I'm so depressed this week. 

Therapist: I wonder if it might have to do with feelings of grief about your 
separation from your husband. 

You: (checking in your body) No, that's not quite it. It is 

about the separation, but it's not so much grief... It's more fear ... Fear 
that I'll lose myself again, like I did in that relationship. 

Continuing your work between sessions 

One of the drawbacks of therapy is that it happens (usually) only one 
hour a week, and between sessions you have to live your life! Focusing 
helps you to give your feelings gentle companionship whenever they 
come up and enables you to do "homework" by continuing your inner 
work in the times between your therapy sessions. 


You may find that strong feelings, like panic or grief, tend to come up late 
at night, or in the middle of interactions with other people—inconvenient 



times for calling your therapist. When this happens, just say hello to the 
feelings. Acknowledge that there must be a good reason for these feelings 
to come so strongly now. Imagine that you can put a friendly arm around 
the feelings inside you. Say to yourself, "Yes, part of me feels this way." If 
you are alone, take time to simply be with the feelings, describing how 
they feel in your body, and asking, "What do you need me to know right 
now?" Overwhelming feelings will quickly become manageable with this 
kind of gentle attention. 

If you are with other people when strong feelings come up, first take a 
deep breath. How often we forget to breathe! Then silently say to the 
feelings, "Hello, I know you're there." You'll probably find that the 
feelings relax a little. Depending on your relationship with the people 
you're with, you may be able to tell them what is happening: "I just got 
panicky, and I need a little time to breathe." If necessary, you can make 
an inner appointment with your feelings: "I can't spend time with you 
right now, but in half an hour I'll be alone in the car and I can listen to 
you then." Then keep your appointment! 

The healing continues 

As your therapy progresses. Focusing can support and encourage the 
positive changes you experience. You will probably find yourself changing 
and growing in the following ways: 

• You are aware of what you are feeling at the time you feel it, rather 
than feeling numb at the time and having a delayed reaction days or 
weeks later. 

• You feel more accepting of your own opinions and your own 
perspective, rather than thinking you ought to see the world the way 
others see it. 

• You are more able to have mixed feelings, such as having both fear 
and excitement about taking the next steps in your life. 

• You feel more deserving of love, appreciation, and respect, and you 
are more able to give these to yourself. 

• You have an inner reserve of strength and flexibility, so you are able 
to handle the ups and downs of life without being crushed. 

• You are able to feel happy for long stretches of time without 
wondering when disaster will strike. 



At first, you will probably experience these and other positive changes in 
small amounts, for short periods of time. Life change often follows the 
pattern of "two steps forward, one step back." During the times of 
backsliding, it is easy to doubt whether you are really changing. You can 
use Focusing to confirm and deepen the experience of positive change. 
When you notice that you are feeling good, or experiencing some 
situation in a new way, take time to feel that in your body. Savor the new 
feeling, name it and welcome it. See also Chapter Six, "Receiving the 
Gifts," for more about how to deepen your positive experiences. 

Be sure to use Focusing to be kind and gentle to yourself during the times 
when you lose your sense of progress and you're back in the old feelings 
again. Sometimes the behaviors and attitudes you are releasing will come 
back strongly just before they let you go—a "last hurrah." Hang in there; 
you are on your way through! 

Becoming your own therapist 

Eventually you will be ready to end your therapy. You can use Focusing to 
help you feel the rightness of this step. Your Focusing skills can help you 
move from having the support of your therapist to being your own 
primary support person. Being able to acknowledge your feelings and 
hear their messages is a lifelong gift, an ability that will stay with you 
through all the future changes of your life. 

Remember, no matter what happens, notice how it feels in your body, 
and say hello to it. With Focusing, you have a nurturing relationship with 
your inner self that nothing can take away from you. Enjoy! 



Resources 

Focusing Networks 


These resources can help you connect with other people using Focusing 
in your area and learn of Focusing workshops and retreats and 
certification as a Focusing Trainer. 

Ann Weiser Cornell, Focusing Resources, 2625 Alcatraz Ave. #202, 
Berkeley, CA 94705-2702. 510-654-4819. Fax: 510-654-1856. 

The Focusing Institute, 220 S. State St. #706, Chicago, IL 60604. 312- 
986-9700. Fax: 312-986-9701. 

The Institute for Bio-Spiritual Research. R O. Box 741137, Arvada, CO 
80006-1137. Tel/Fax: 303-427-5311 

Books about Focusing 

John Amodeo and Kris Wentworth. Being Intimate: A Guide to 
Successful Relationships. London: Arkana, 1986. 

This book tells how to use Focusing to stay centered and present 

to yourself in your intimate relationships. 

Peter A. Campbell and Edwin M. McMahon. Bio-Spirituality: Focusing as 
a Way to Grow. Chicago: Loyola University Press, 1985. 

By two Catholic priests, this is a view of Focusing from a spiritual 
perspective, in which words like "grace" and "prayer" take on a special 
meaning. 

Ann Weiser Cornell. The Focusing Guide's Manual. Third edition. 
Berkeley, CA: Focusing Resources, 1993. $30 postpaid from Focusing 
Resources, 2625 Alcatraz Ave. #202, Berkeley, CA 94705-2702. MC/Visa 
accepted. 510-654-4819. 



A manual for guiding people in Focusing with many helpful 
tips, examples, and charming illustrations. 

Neil Friedman. On Focusing. 1995. Available from Neil Friedman, 259 
Massachusetts Ave., Arlington, MA 02174, for $25 plus $3 shipping and 
handling in the US. 

An excellent resource for both the beginner and the professional. 

Eugene Gendlin. Focusing. New York: Bantam, 1981. 

The original book about Focusing by the man who originated it, well 
worth reading for many reasons, including its transformative stories 
about people using Focusing. 

Eugene Gendlin. Let Your Body Interpret Your Dreams. Wilmette, IL: 
Chiron Publications, 1986. Available from Chiron Publications, Order 
Fulfillment, P O. Box 599, Peru, IL 61354, for $9.95 plus $1.75 shipping 
and handling. 

"Every dream has a gift," says Gendlin, and in this book he teaches how to 
use Focusing to find the gifts in your dreams, even in the scary ones. 

Edwin M. McMahon. Beyond the Myth of Dominance: An Alternative to a 
Violent Society. Kansas City: Sheed and Ward, 1993. (To order: 800-333- 
7373) 

Further writings on "Bio-Spirituality," including the global implications 
of listening to the felt sense in our lives. 

Publications about Focusing 

The Focusing Folio. Journal, (with membership), $75 per year from the 
Focusing Institute, 220 S. State St. #706, Chicago, IL 60604. Edited by 
Bala Jaison and Mary Lawlor. 

The Focusing Connection. Newsletter, $18 per year ($22 overseas), 6 
issues, from Focusing Resources, 2625 Alcatraz Ave. #202, Berkeley, CA 
94705-2702. Edited by Ann Weiser Cornell. MC/Visa accepted. 510-654- 



4819. 

For Professionals 

Eugene Gendlin. Focusing-Oriented Psychotherapy: A Manual of the 
Experiential Method. New York: Guilford, 1996. 

Marion N. Hendricks. "Experiencing Level as a Therapeutic Variable." In 
Person-Centered Review, Vol. 1, No. 2, May 1986,141-162. 

Elfie Hinterkopt. Integrating Spirituality in Counseling: Using the 
Experiential Focusing Method. Available from Elfie Hinterkopf, 8200 
Neely Dr., #151, Austin, TX 78759. $18 postpaid in the U.S., $21 outside 
the U.S. 

James R. Iberg. "Focusing." In Corsini, R. (ed.). Handbook of Innovative 
Psychotherapy. New York: Wiley, 1981. 

Some Other New Harbinger Self-Help Tities 

High on Stress: A Woman's Guide to Optimizing the Stress in Her Life, 
$13.95 Infidelity: A Survival Guide, $12.95 Stop Walking on Eggshells, 
$ 13-95 

Consumer's Guide to Psychiatric Drugs, $13.95 ,. in-.-tfiooK 

The Fibromyalgia Advocate: Getting the Support You Need to Cope with 
Fibromyalgia and Myofascial Pain, $18.95 Healing Fear: New Approaches 
to Overcoming Anxiety, $16.95 Working Anger: Preventing and Resolving 
Conflict on the Job, $12.95 Sex Smart: How Your ChUdhood Shaped Your 
Sexual Life and What to Do About It, $14.95 You Can Free Yourself From 
Alcohol & Drugs, $13.95 

Amongst Ourselves: A Self-Help Guide to Living with Dissociative 
Identity Disorder, $14.95 Healthy Living with Diabetes, $13.95 Dr. Carl 
Robinson's Basic Baby Care, $10.95 Better Boundries: Owning and 
Treasuring Your Life, $13.95 Goodbye Good Girl, $12.95 Being, 

Belonging, Doing, $10.95 Thoughts & Feelings, Second Edition, $18.95 
Depression: How It Happens, How It's Healed, $14.95 Trust After 
Trauma, $13.95 



The Chemotherapy & Radiation Survival Guide, Second Edition, $14.95 
Heart Therapy, $13.95 Surviving Childhood Cancer, $12.95 The 
Headache & Neck Pain Workbook, $14.95 Perimenopause, $13.95 The 
Self-Forgiveness Handbook, $12.95 A Woman's Guide to Overcoming 
Sexual Fear and Pain, $14.95 Mind Over bAalignancy, $12.95 Treating 
Panic Disorder and Agoraphobia, $44.95 Scarred SouL $13.95 The Angry 
Heart, $14.95 Don't Take It Personally, $12.95 Becoming a Wise Parent 
For Your Grown Child, $iZ95 dear Your Past, Change Your Future, 

$13.95 Preparing for Surgery, $17.95 The Power ofTxoo, $12.95 It's Not 
OK Anymore, $13.95 The Daily Relaxer, $iZ95 The Body Image 
Workbook, $17.95 Living with ADD, $17.95 Taking the Anxiety Out of 
Taking Tests, $12.95 Five Weeks to Healing Stress: The Wellness Option, 
$17.95 Why Children Misbehave and What to Do About It, $1495 When 
Anger Hurts Your Kids, $12.95 The Addiction Workbook, $17.95 

The Chronic Pain Control Workbook, Second Edition, $17.95 
Fibromyalgia & Chronic Myofascial Pain Syndrome, $19.95 Flying 
Without Fear, $13.95 

Kid Cooperation: How to Stop Yelling Nagging & Pleading and Get Kids 
to Cooperate, $13.95 The Stop Smoking Workbook: Your Guide to 
Healthy QuitHng, $17.95 Conquering Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and Other 
Repetitive Strain Injuries, $17.95 An End to Panic: Breakthrough 
Techniques for Overcoming Panic Disorder, Second Edition, $18.95 
Letting Go of Anger: The 10 Most Common Anger Styles and What to Do 
About Them, $12.95 Messages: The Communication Skills Workbook, 
Second Edition, $13.95 Coping With Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Nine 
Things You Can Do, $13.95 The Anxiety & Phobia Workbook, Second 
Edition, $18.95 The Relaxation & Stress Reduction Workbook, Fourth 
Edition, $17.95 

Living Without Depression & Manic Depression: A Workbook for 
Maintaining Mood Stability, $17.95 Coping With Schizophrenia: A Guide 
For Families, $15.95 Visualization for Change, Second Edition, $15.95 
Postpartum Survival Guide, $13.95 

Angry All the Time: An Emergency Guide to Anger Control, $12.95 
Couple Skills: Making Your Relationship Work, $13.95 Self-Esteem, 
Second Edition, $13.95 



/ Can't Get Over It, A Handbook for Trauma Survivors, Second Edition, 
$15.95 Dying of Embarrassment: Help for Social Anxiety and Social 
Phobia, $13.95 The Depression Workbook: Living With Depression and 
Manic Depression, $17.95 Men & Grief A Guide for Men Surviving the 
Death of a Loved One, $14.95 When Once Is Not Enough: Help for 
Obsessive Compulsives, $13.95 Beyond Grief: A Guide for Recovering 
from the Death of a Loved One, $13.95 Hypnosis for Change: A Manual of 
Proven Techniques A Third Edition, $15.95 When Anger Hurts, $13.95 

CaU loll free, 1-800-748-6273, to order. Have your Visa or Mastercard 
number ready. Or send a check for the HUes you want to New Harbinger 
Publications, Inc., 5674 Shattuck Ave., Oakland, CA 94609. Include 
$3.80 for the first book and 75c for each additional book, to cover 
shipping and handling. (California residents please include appropriate 
sales tax.) Allow two to five weeks for delivery. 

Prices subject to change without notice. 

om front rlao 

This practical guide to emotional self-healing will teach you the 
techniques of focusing, and guide you through the steps of a developing 
relationship with your own body. You will learn to learn from your body, 
discovering your feelings, needs, and true values-not by arguing, not by 
trying to control yourself, but simply by paying attention, by listening, by 
being present. 

Ann Weiser Cornell learned Focusing from Eugene Gendlin, who first 
discovered the technique. She has gone on to achieve an international 
reputation as one of the field's leading innovators and theoreticians. She 
taught at Gendlin's Focusing Institute in Chicago, developed the first 
workshops for Focusing guides, and now regularly teaches popular 
workshops throughout North America, Europe, and the Far East. Ann is 
editor and publisher of The Focusing Connection newsletter and has 
served as president of the Association of Humanistic Psychology. Ann 
currently makes her home in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she 
offers classes and workshops through her organization, Focusing 
Resources. 



me 'communications 


60 West 66th Street New York, NY 10023 



THE WISDOM OF THE BODY 

People are increasingly realizing that we can consult our bodies 
about what we should eat and how much exercise we need. But the 
body's wisdom goes beyond the physical. 

Our bodies carry hidden knowledge about what we need, what we 
value and believe, and what has hurt us emotionally and how to 
heal it. Our bodies know which people around us bring out the best 
in us, and which people deplete and diminish us. Our bodies know 
the right next step to bring us more fulfilling and rewarding lives. 

Focusing is the way to release this knowledge and this exciting 
potential for change. Focusing lets you form a trusting relationship 
with your body. Focusing lets you listen to the whispers of your body 
before it has to shout. Focusing is the key to changing your life in a 
way that satisfies your inner sense of rightness. 

Focusing can help you: 

• know better what you feel and want 

• handle overwhelming emotions 

• release action blocks or addictions 

• release self-criticism 

• increase self-love and acceptance 

• make clear, centered decisions 

"The Power of Focusing clarifies on essential human skill many 
of us have forgotten and takes it a quantum leap farther along 
its evolutionary path. Here are germinal teachings and deep 
human wisdom expressed in a way that can improve 
anyone's emotions, well-being, life." 

-Dan Millman, 

author of Way of the Peaceful Warrior 


ISBN 1 - 56731 - 297-7 








































