PRACTICING 
THE POWER OF 

NOW 

ESSENTIAL TEACHINGS, 
MEDITATIONS, AND EXERCISES 
FOR LIVING THE LIBERATED LIFE 

Eckhart Tolle 

The companion to the bestselling The Power of Now 



PKAC'J'JCJrfG 
THE POWER OF 



In The Power of Now, Eckhart Tolle shared the enlightenment 
he experienced after a startling personal transformation. This 
companion book extracts the essence of his teachings about 
how to free oneself from enslavement of the mind. His views 
go beyond any particular religion, doctrine, or guru. The goal 
is to be able to enter into and sustain an enlightened state of 
consciousness throughout everyday life. 

Through meditations and simple techniques, Eckhart 
shows readers how to quiet thetr thoughts, see the world in 
the present moment, and find the truest path to happiness. 



9 73073311&145451 
HODDER 



PRACTICING 
THE POWER OF 

NOW 



PRACTICING 
THE POWER OF 

NOW 

ESSENTIAL TEACHINGS, 
MEDITATIONS, AND EXERCISES 
FROM THE POWER OF NOW 



Eckhart Tolle 



HDDDER 



A Hodder book 



Puhlished in Australia and New Zealand in 200 1 
by Hodder Headline Australia Pty Limited 
(A member of the Hodder Headline Group) 
Level 22, 201 Kent Street, Sydney NSW 2000 
www, hha.com , au 

Published by arrangement with New World Library, USA 

Copyright © 2001 Eckhart TolJe 

Most of the material in this book is excerpted from 
The Power of Now © 1 997 Eckhart Tolle 

This book is copyright, Apart from any fair dealing for the purposes of 

private study, research, criticism or review as permitted under the 
Copyright Act 1968^ no part may be stored or reproduced by any process 
without prior written permission. Enquiries should be made to the publisher. 

National Australia Cataloging-in- Publication Data 
Tolle, Eckhart. 

Practicing the power of now ; essential teachings, meditations, and 
exercises from The power of now. 

Bibliography, 
ISBN 0 7336 1454 X, 
L Spiritual life. L Title. 

291.44 

Cover design by Mary Ann Casler with Jacqueline Verkley 
Text design by Mary Ann Casler 
Printed in Australia by Griffin Press 



■- - ■■ ■ .- !--^!S^/f^?^ thinker, i 

■ V ". .- i^jw s -jC^^/i .~J5^ g^ja( _ >^!!i/¥ : i^. 'that 'then' is *■/ iwtf I'fWf?? 

■■M-Vi--: ' i .\&f\fai0j$?w$ (teyshi twrtiffi&'-t'&tn rkfuwhi is only <? _ ■ " 

■' ' J&^. L ?x J ^/^:.j'?6^3r r M^i? ihfags thitttvuiy m^tta-—-- ..... 



INTRODUCTION 

by Eckhart Tolle 9 



PART ONE 

ACCESSING THE POWER OF NOW 



CHAPTER ONE 

Being and Enlightenment 15 

CHAPTER TWO 

The Origin of Fear 27 

CHAPTER THREE 

Entering the Now 33 

CHAPTER FOUR 

Dissolving Unconsciousness 47 

CHAPTER FIVE 

Beauty Arises in the Stillness of Your Presence 



PART TWO 

RELATIONSHIP AS SPIRITUAL PRACTICE 



CHAPTER SIX 

Dissolving the Pain -Body 73 

CHAPTER SEVEN 

From Addictive to Enlightened Relationships 87 

PART THREE 

ACCEPTANCE AND SURRENDER 

CHAPTER EIGHT 

Acceptance of the Now 1 03 

CHAPTER NINE 

Transforming Illness and Suffering 129 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 141 



I N i RODUCTION 



by ECKHART TOLLE 




Since St was first published in 1997, The Power of Now 
has already Kad an impact on t lie collective conscious • 
ness of the planet far beyond anything I could have 
imagined. It has been translated into fifteen languages, 
and I receive mail from around the globe every day 
from readers who tell me that their lives have been 
changed through coming into contact with the teach- 
ing embodied in the book. 

Although the effects of the insanity of the egoic 
mind are still visible everywhere, somerhing new is 
emerging. Never before have so many people been 
ready to break out of collective mind -patterns that 
have kept humanity in bondage to suffering since time 



9 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



immemorial. A new state of consciousness is emerging. 
We have suffered enough! Even at this moment it is 
emerging from within you, as you hold this book in 
your bands and read these lines that speak of the pos- 
sibility of living the liberated life, in which you no 
longer inflict suffering on yourself or others. 

Many of the readers who wrote to me expressed a wish 
to have the practical aspects of the teachings contained 
in The Power of Now presented in a more readily acces- 
sible format, to be used in their daily practice. That 
request became the impetus for this book. 

In addition to the exercises and practices, however, 
this book also contains some shorter passages from the 
original work that can serve as a reminder of some of 
the ideas and concepts and can become a primer for 
incorporating those concepts daily. 

Many of those passages are particularly suitable for 
meditative reading. When you practice meditative 
reading, you do not read primarily to gather new infor- 
mation, but to enter a different state of consciousness 
as you read. This is wby you can re-read the same pas- 
sage many times, and every time it feels fresh and new. 
Only words that were written or spoken in a state of 
presence have this transformative power, which is tbe 
power to awaken presence in the reader. 

These passages are best read slowly. Many times 

10 



INTRODUCTION 



you may want to pause and allow for a moment of 
quiet reflection, or stillness. At other times, you may 
just open the book at random and read a few lines. 

For those readers who felt daunted or overwhelmed 
by The Power of Now, this book can also serve as an 
introduction. 



— Eckhart Tolle 
July 9, 2001 



ii 



V A R I' ONE 



ACCESSING 
POWER of NOW 



When your consciousness 

is directed outward, 
mind and world arise. 
Wl)en it is directed inward, 
it realizes its own Source 
returns borne into the Unmanifested 



CHAPTER ONE 



BEING amd ENLIGHTENMENT 



There is an eternal, ever-present One Life beyond the 
myriad forms of life thai are subject to birrh and death. 
Many people use the word God to describe it; I often 
call it Being, The word Being explains nothing, but nor 
does God, Being, however, has the advantage that it is 
an open concept. It does not reduce the infinite invisi- 
ble ro a finite entity. It is impossible to form a mental 
image of it. Nobody can claim exclusive possession of 
Being, It is your very presence, and it is immediately 
accessible to you as the feeling of your own presence. So 
it is only a small step from the word Being to the expe- 
rience of Being. 



T 5 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



BEING IS NOT ONLY BEYOND BUT ALSO DEEP 
WITHIN every form as its innermost invisible 
and indestructible essence* This means that it 
is accessible to you now as your own deepest 
self, your true nature. But don't seek to grasp it 
with your mind. Don't try to understand it 

You can know it only when the mind is 
still When you are present, when your atten- 
tion is fully and intensely in the Now, Being 
can be felt, but it can never be understood 
mentally 

To regain awareness of Being and to abide in that 
state of "feeling-realization" is enlightenment. 

The word enlightenment conjures up the idea of 
some superhuman accomplishment, and the ego likes 
to keep it that way but it is simply your natural state 
of felt oneness with Being. It is a state of connectedness 
with something immeasurable and indestructible, 
something that, almost paradoxically, is essentially you 
and yet is much greater than you. It is finding your true 
nature beyond name and form. 

The inability to feel this connectedness gives rise to 
the illusion of separation, from yourself and from the 
world around you. You then perceive yourself, consciously 
or unconsciously, as an isolated fragment. Fear arises, and 
conflicts within and without become the norm. 

16 



BEING ENLIGHTENMENT 



The greatest obstacle to experiencing the reality of your 
connectedness is identification with your mind, which 
causes thought to become compulsive. Not to he able 
to stop thinking is a dreadful affliction, but we dont 
realize this because almost everybody is suffering from 
it, so it is considered normal. This incessant mental 
noise prevents you from finding that realm of inner 
stillness that is inseparable from Being. It also creates a 
false mind-made self that casts a shadow of fear and 
suffering. 

Identification with your mind creates an opaque 
screen of concepts, labels, images, words, judgments* 
and definitions that hlocks all true relationship. It comes 
between you and yourself, between you and your fellow 
man and woman, between you and nature, between you 
and God. It is this screen of thought that creates the illu- 
sion of separateness, the illusion that there is you and a 
totally separate ' other." You then foiget the essential fact 
that, underneath the level of physical appearances and 
separate forms, you are one with all that is. 

The mind is a superb instrument if used rightly. 
Used wrongly, however, it becomes very destructive. To 
put it more accurately it is not so much that you use 
your mind wrongly — you usually don't use it at all. It 
uses you. This is the disease. You believe that you are 
your mind. This is the delusion. The instrument has 
taken you over. 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



Its almost as if you were possessed without knowing 
it, and so you take the possessing entity to be yourself 

THE BEGINNING OF FREEDOM is the realization 
that you are not the possessing entity — the 
thinker. Knowing this enables you to observe the 
entity. The moment you start watching the 
thinker, a higher level of consciousness becomes 
activated. 



You then hegin to realize that there is a vast realm 
of intelligence beyond thought, that thought is only a 
tiny aspect of that intelligence. You also realize that all 
the things that truly matter — beauty, love, creativity, 
joy, inner peace — arise from beyond the mind. 

You begin to awaken. 



FREEING YOURSELF FROM YOUR MINO 

The good news is that you can free yourself from your 
mind. This is the only true liberation. You can take the 
first step right now. 

START LISTENING TO TNE VOICE IN YOUR HEAD as 

often as you can. Pay particular attention to 
any repetitive thought patterns, those old 



18 



BEING AND ENLIGHTENMENT 



audiotapes that have been playing in your head 
perhaps for many years. 

This is what I mean by "watching the 
thinker/* which is another way of saying: Listen 
to the voice in your head, be there as the wit- 
nessing presence. 

When you listen to that voice, listen to it 
impartially. That is to say do not judge. Do not 
judge or condemn what you hear, for doing so 
would mean that the same voice has come in 
again through the back door. You 11 soon real- 
ize: There is the voice* and here I am listening 
to it, watching it. This / am realization, this 
sense of your own presence, is not a thought. It 
arises from beyond the mind. 

So when you listen to a thought, you are aware not 
only of the thought but also of yourself as the witness of the 
thought. A new dimension of consciousness has come in. 

AS YOU LISTEN TO THE THOUGHT, you feel a con- 
scious presence — your deeper self — behind or 
underneath the thought* as it were. The thought 
then loses its power over you and quickly suhsides, 
because you are no longer energizing the mind 
through identification with it. This is the beginning 
of the end of involuntary and compulsive thinking. 

19 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

When a thought subsides* you experience a 
discontinuity in the mental stream — a gap of 
"no-mind," At first, the gaps will be short, a few 
seconds perhaps, but gradually they will 
become longer. When these gaps occur, you feel 
a certain stillness and peace inside you. This is 
the beginning of your natural state of felt one- 
ness with Being, which is usually obscured by 
the mind. 

With practice, the sense of stillness and 
peace will deepen. In fact, there is no end to its 
depth. You will also feel a subtle emanation of 
joy arising from deep within: the joy of Being. 

In tbis state of inner connectedness, you are much 
more alert, more awake than in the mind-identified 
state. You are fully present. It also raises the vibrational 
frequency of the energy field that gives life to the phys- 
ical body. 

As you go more deeply into this realm of no- 
mind, as it is sometimes called in the East, you realize 
the state of pure consciousness. In that state, you feel 
your own presence with such intensity and such joy 
that all thinking, all emotions, your physical body, as 
well as the whole external world become relatively 
insignificant in comparison to it. And yet this is not a 
selfish but a selfless state. It takes you beyond what 



20 



BEING AMD ENLIGHTENMENT 



you previously thought of as "your self." That pres- 
ence is essentially you and at the same time incon- 
ceivably greater than you. 



INSTEAD OF "WATCHIHG THE THIHKER" you can 

also create a gap in the mind stream simply by 
directing the focus of your attention into the 
Now, Just become intensely conscious of the pres- 
ent moment. 



This is a deeply satisfying thing to do. In this way, 
you draw consciousness away from mind activity and 
create a gap of no-mind in which you are highly alert 
and aware but not thinking. This is the essence of med- 
itation. 



IN YOUR EVERYDAY LIFE, you can practice this 
by taking any routine activity that normally is 
only a means to an end and giving it your 
fullest attention, so that it becomes an end in 
itself. For example, every time you walk up and 
down the stairs in your house or place of work, 
pay close attention to every step, every move- 
ment, even your breathing. Be totally present. 

Or when you wash your hands, pay atten- 
tion to all the sense perceptions associated with 
the activiry: the sound and feel of the water, the 



21 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



movement of your hands, the scent of the soap, 
and so on. 

Or when you get into your car, after you 
close the door, pause for a few seconds and 
observe the flow of your breath. Become aware 
of a silent but powerful sense of presence* 

There is one certain criterion by which you 
can measure your success in this practice: the 
degree of peace that you feel within. 

The single most vital step on your journey toward 
enlightenment is this: Learn to disidentify ftom your 
mind. Every time you create a gap in the stream of mind, 
the light of your consciousness grows stronger. 

One day you may catch yourself smiling at the 
voice in your head* as you would smile at the antics of 
a child This means that you no longer take the content 
of your mind all that seriously as your sense of self does 
not depend on it. 



ENLIGHTENMENT: RISING ABOVE THOUGHT 

As you grow up, you form a mental image of who you 
are, hased on your personal and cultural conditioning. 
We may call this phantom self the ego. It consists 
of mind activity and can only be kept going through 



BEING AND ENLIGHTENMENT 



constant thinking. The term ego means different things 
to different people, but when I use it here it means a 
false self, created by unconscious identification with 
the mind. 

To the ego> the present moment hardly exists. Only 
past and future are considered important. This total 
reversal of the truth accounts for the fact that in the ego 
mode the mind is so dysfunctional. It is always con- 
cerned with keeping the past alive, because without it 
— who are you? It constantly projects itself into the 
future to ensure its continued survival and to seek some 
kind of release or fulfillment there. It says: "One day 
when this, that, or the other happens, I am going to be 
okay, happy, at peace." 

Even when the ego seems to be concerned with the 
present, it is not the present that it sees: It misperceives 
it completely because it looks at it through the eyes of 
the past. Or it reduces the present to a means to an end> 
an end that always lies in the mind-projected future. 
Observe your mind and you 11 see that this is how it 
works. 

The present moment holds the key to liberation. But 
you cannot find the present moment as long as you are 
your mind. 

Enlightenment means rising above thought- In the 
enlightened state, you still use your thinking mind when 



23 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



needed, but in a much more focused and effective way 
than before. You use it mostly for practical purposes* but 
you are free of the involuntary internal dialogue, and 
there is inner stillness. 

When you do use your mind, and particularly 
when a creative solution is needed* you oscillate every 
few minutes or so between thought and stillness, 
between mind and no-mind. No-mind is conscious- 
ness without thought Only in that way is it possible to 
think creatively, because only in that way does thought 
have any real power. Thought alone, when it is no 
longer connected with the much vaster realm of con- 
sciousness quickly becomes barren, insane, destructive. 



EMOTION: 
THE BODY'S REACTION TO YOUR MIND 

Mind, in the way I use the word, is not just thought. 
It includes your emotions as well as all unconscious 
mental-emotional reactive patterns. Emotion arises at 
the place where mind and body meet. It is the bodys 
reaction to your mind — or you might say a reflection 
of your mind in the body. 

The more you arc identified with your thinking, 
your likes and dislikes, judgments and interpretations, 
which is to say the less present you are as the watching 



24 



BEING AND ENLIGHTENMENT 

consciousness, the stronger the emotional energy chaige 
will be, whether you are aware of it or not. If you can- 
not feel your emotions, if you are cut off from them, 
you will eventually experience them on a purely physi- 
cal level, as a physical problem or symptom. 

IF YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY FEELING YOUR EMO- 
TIONS, start by focusing attention on the inner 
energy field of your body Feel the hody from 
within. This will also put you in touch with 
your emotions. 

If you really want to know your mind, the 
body will always give you a truthful reflection, 
so look at the emotion, or rather feel it in your 
body. If there is an apparent conflict between 
them> the thought will be the lie, the emotion 
will be the truth. Not the ultimate truth of who 
you are, but the relative truth of your state of 
mind at that time. 

You may not yet he able to bring your 
unconscious mind activity into awareness as 
thoughts, but it will always be reflected in the 
body as an emotion, and of this you can 
become aware. 

To watch an emotion in this way is basically 
the same as listening to or watching a thought* 
which I described earlier. The only difference is 



25 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



that, while a thought is in your head, an emotion 
has a strong physical component and so is pri- 
marily felt in the body. You can then allow the 
emotion to be (here without being controlled by 
it, You no longer are the emotion; you ate the 
watcher, the observing presence. 

If you practice this, all that is unconscious in you 
11 be brought into the light of consciousness. 

MAKE IT A HABIT TO ASK YOURSELF: Whats going 
on inside me at this moment? That question will 
point you in the right direction. But don't ana- 
lyze, just watch. Focus your attention within* 
Feel the energy of the emotion. 

If there is no emotion present* take your 
attention more deeply into the inner energy 
field of your body. It is the doorway into Being. 



26 



CHAPTER TWO 

the ORIGIN of FEAR 



The psychological condition of fear is divorced from 
any concrete and true immediate danger. It comes in 
many forms: unease, worry, anxiety, nervousness, ten- 
sion, dread, phobia, and so on. This kind of psycholog- 
ical fear is always of somediing that might happen, not 
of something that is happening now. You are in the here 
and now, while your mind is in the future. This creates 
an anxiety gap. And if you are identified with your mind 
and have lost touch with the power and simplicity of the 
Now, that anxiety gap will be your constant companion. 
You can a] ways cope with the present moment, but you 
cannot cope with something that is only a mind projec- 
tion — you cannot cope with the future. 



n 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

Moreover, as long as you are identified with your 
mind, the ego runs your life. Because of its phantom 
nature, and despite elaborate defense mechanisms, 
the ego is very vulnerable and insecure, and it sees 
itself as constantly under threat. This, by the way, is 
the case even if the ego is outwardly very confident. 
Now remember that an emotion is the body's reac- 
tion to your mind. What message is the body receiv- 
ing continuously from the ego, the false, mind-made 
self? Danger, I am under threat. And what is the 
emotion generated by this continuous message? Fear, 
of course. 

Fear seems to have many causes. Fear of loss, fear of 
failure, fear of being hurt, and so on, but ultimately all 
fear is the ego's fear of death, of annihilation. To the 
ego, death is always just around the corner. In this 
mind-identified state, fear of death affects every aspect 
of your life. 

For example, even such a seemingly trivial and "nor- 
mal" thing as the compulsive need to be right in an 
argument and make the other person wrong — defend- 
ing the mental position with which you have identified 
— is due to the fear of death. If you identify with a 
mental position, then if you are wrong, your mind- 
based sense of self is seriously threatened with annihila- 
tion. So you as the ego cannot afford to be wrong. To 



28 



THE ORIGIN OF FEAR 



be wrong is to die. Wars have been fought over this, and 
countless relationships have broken down. 

Once you have disidentified from your mind, 
whether you are right or wrong makes no difference to 
your sense of self at all, so the forcefully compulsive 
and deeply unconscious need to be right, which is a 
form of violence, will no longer be there. You can state 
clearly and firmly how you feel or what you think, but 
there will be no aggressiveness or defensiveness about 
it Your sense of self is then derived from a deeper and 
truer place within yourself, not from the mind. 

WATCH OUT FDR ANY KIND OF DEFENSIVENESS 

within yourself What are you defending? An 
illusory identity, an image in your mind, a fic- 
titious entity, By making this pattern conscious, 
by witnessing it, you disidentify from it. In the 
light of your consciousness, the unconscious 
pattern will then quickly dissolve. 

This is the end of all arguments and power 
games, which are so corrosive to relationships. 
Power over others is weakness disguised as 
strength. True power is within, and it is avail- 
able to you now. 

The mind always seeks to deny the Now and to escape 
from it. In other words, the more you are identified 



29 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



with your mind, the more you suffer Or you may put 
it like this: The more you are able to honor and accept 
the Now> the more you are free of pain, of suffering — 
and free of the egoic mind. 

If you no longer want to create pain for yourself 
and others, if you no longer want to add to the residue 
of past pain that still lives on in you, then don't create 
any more time, or at least no more than is necessary to 
deal with the practical aspects of your life. How to stop 
creating time? 

REALIZE DEEPLYTHATTHE PRESENT MOMENT is 

all you ever bave. Make the Now the primary 
focus of your life. 

Whereas before you dwelt in time and paid 
brief visits to the Now, have your dwelling 
place in the Now and pay brief visits to past 
and future when required to deal with the prac- 
tical aspects of your life situation. 

Always say "yes* to the present moment. 



END THE DELUSION OF TIME 

Here is the key: End the delusion of time. Time and 
mind are inseparable. Remove time from the mind 
and it stops — unless you choose to use it. 



30 



THE ORIGIN OF FEAR 



To be identified with your mind is to be trapped in 
time: the compulsion to live almost exclusively through 
memory and anticipation. This creates an endless pre- 
occupation with past and future and an unwillingness 
to honor and acknowledge the present moment and 
allow it to be. The compulsion arises because the past 
gives you an identity and the future holds the promise 
of salvation, of fulfillment in whatever form. Both are 
illusions. 

The more you are focused on time — past and 
future — the more you miss the Now, the most pre- 
cious thing there is. 

Why is it the most precious thing? Firstly, because 
it is the only thing. Its all there is. The eternal present 
is the space within which your whole life unfolds, tbe 
one factor that remains constant. Life is now. There 
was never a time when your life was not now, nor will 
there ever be. 

Secondly, the Now is the only point that can take 
you beyond the limited confines of the mind. It is your 
only point of access into the timeless and formless 
realm of Being. 

Have you ever experienced* done, thought or felt 
anything outside the Now? Do you think you ever will? 
Is it possible for anything to happen or be outside the 
Now? The answer is obvious* is it not? 

Nothing ever happened in the past; it happened in 



31 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



the Now. Nothing will ever happen in the future; it will 
happen in the Now. 

The essence of what I am saying here cannot be 
understood by the mind. The moment you grasp it, 
there is a shift in consciousness from mind to Being, 
from time to presence. Suddenly, everything feels alive, 
radiates energy, emanates Being, 



CHAPTER THREE 




ENTERING the NOW 



With the cimeless dimension comes a different kind of 
knowing, one that does not "kill" the spirit that lives 
within every creature and every thing, A knowing rhat 
does not destroy the sacredness and mystery of life but 
contains a deep love and reverence for all rhat is. A 
knowing of which the mind knows nothing. 

BREAK THE OLD PATTERN of present- moment 
denial and present-moment resistance. Make it 
your practice to withdraw attention from past 
and future whenever they are not needed. Step 
out of the time dimension as much as possible 
in everyday lire. 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF HOW 



If you find it hard to enter the Now directly* 
start by observing the habitual tendency of your 
mind to want to escape from the Now. You will 
observe that the future is usually imagined as 
eitber better or worse than the present If tbe 
imagined future is better, it gives you hope or 
pleasurable anticipation. If it is worse, it creates 
anxiety. Both are illusory 

Through self-observation, more presence 
comes into your life automatically The moment 
you realize you are not present, you are present. 
Whenever you are able to observe your mind, 
you are no longer trapped in it. Another factor 
has come in, something that is not of the mind: 
the witnessing presence. 

Be present as the watcher of your mind — 
of your thoughts and emotions as well as your 
reactions in various situations. Be at least as 
interested in your reactions as in the situation 
or person that causes you to react. 

Notice also how often your attention is in 
the past or future. Don't judge or analyze what 
you observe. Watch the thought, feel the emo- 
tion, observe the reaction. Don't make a per- 
sonal problem out of them. You will then feel 
something more powerful than any of those 
things that you observe: the still, observing 

34 



ENTERING the NOW 



presence itself behind the content of your 
mind, the silent watcher. 

Intense presence is needed when certain situations 
trigger a reaction with a strong emotional charge, such 
as when your self-image is threatened* a challenge 
comes into your life that triggers fear, things "go 
wrong," or an emotional complex from the past is 
brought up. In those instances, the tendency is for you 
to become "unconscious." The reaction or emotion 
takes you over — you "become" it. You act it out. You 
justify, make wrong, attack, defend ... except that it 
isn't you, it's the reactive pattern, the mind in its habit- 
ual survival mode. 

Identification with the mind gives it more energy; 
observation of the mind withdraws energy from it. 
Identification with the mind creates more time; obser- 
vation of the mind opens up the dimension of the 
timeless. The energy that is withdrawn from the mind 
turns into presence. Once you can feel what it means 
to be present, it becomes much easier to simply choose 
to step out of the time dimension whenever time is not 
needed for practical purposes and move more deeply 
into the Now, 

This does not impair your ability to use time — 
past or future — when you need to refer to it for prac- 
tical matters. Nor does it impair your ability to use your 

35 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



mind In feet, it enhances it. When you do use your 
mind* it will be sharper, more focused. 

The enlightened person s main focus of attention is 
always the Now, but they are still peripherally aware of 
time. In other words, they continue to use clock time 
but are free of psychological time. 



LETTING GO OF PSYCHOLOGICAL TIME 

Learn to use time in the practical aspects of your life — 
we may call this "clock time" — but immediately 
return to present-moment awareness when those prac- 
tical matters have been dealt with. In this way, there 
will be no buildup of "psychological time," which is 
identification with the past and continuous compulsive 
projection into the future. 

If you set yourself a goal and work toward it, you are 
using clock time. You are aware of where you want to go, 
but you honor and give your fullest attention to the step 
that you are taking at this moment. If you then become 
excessively focused on the goal, perhaps because you are 
Peking happiness, fulfillment, or a more complete sense 
of self in it, the Now is no longer honored. It becomes 
reduced to a mere stepping-stone to the fbture, with no 
intrinsic value. Clock time then turns into psychological 
time. Your life's journey is no longer an adventure, just an 



36 



ENTERING THE NOW 



obsessive need to arrive, to attain, to "make it." You no 
longer see or smell the flowers by the wayside either, nor 
are you aware of the beauty and the miracle of life that 
unfolds all around you when you are present in the Now. 

Are you always trying to get somewhere other than 
where you are? Is most of your doing just a means to an 
end? Is fulfillment always just around the corner or 
confined to short-lived pleasures, such as sex, food, 
drink, drugs, or thrills and excitement? Are you always 
focused on becoming, achieving, and attaining, or 
alternatively chasing some new thrill or pleasure? Do 
you believe that if you acquire more things you will 
become more fulfilled, good enough, or psychologi- 
cally complete? Are you waiting for a man or woman to 
give meaning to your life? 

In the normal, mind-identified or unenlightened 
state of consciousness, the power and infinite creative 
potential that lie concealed in the Now are completely 
obscured by psychological time. Your life then loses its 
vibrancy, its freshness, its sense of wonder. The old pat- 
terns of thought, emotion, behavior, reaction, and 
desire are acted out in endless repeat performances, a 
script in your mind that gives you an identity of sorts 
but distorts or covers up the reality of the Now, The 
mind then creates an obsession with the future as an 
escape from the unsatisfactory present 

What you perceive as future is an intrinsic part of 



37 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



your state of consciousness now. if your mind carries a 
heavy burden of past, you will experience more of the 
same. The past perpetuates itseif through lack of pres- 
ence. The quality of your consciousness at this moment 
is what shapes the future — which, of course, can only 
be experienced as the Now. 

If it is the quality of your consciousness at this moment 
that determines the future, then what is it that determines 
the quality ofyour consciousness? Your degree of presence. 
So the only place where true change can occur and where 
the past can be dissolved is the Now. 

You may find it hard to recognize that time is the cause 
of your suffering or your problems. You believe that 
they are caused by specific situations in your life, and 
seen from a conventional viewpoint, this is true. But 
until you have dealt with the basic problem-making 
dysfunction of the mind — its attachment to past and 
future and denial of the Now — problems are actually 
interchangeable. 

If all your problems or perceived causes of suffering 
or unhappiness were miraculously removed for you 
today but you had not become more present, more 
conscious, you would soon find yourself with a similar 
set of problems or causes of suffering, like a shadow 
that follows you wherever you go. Ultimately there is 
only one problem; the time-bound mind itself 

38 



ENTERING THE NOW 



There is no salvation in time. You cannot be free in 
the future. 

PRESENCE IS THE KEY to freedom, so you can 
only be free now. 



FINDING THE LIFE UNDERNEATH 
YOUR LIFE SITUATION 

What you refer to as your "life" should more accurately 
be called your "life situation." It is psychological time: 
past and fixture. Certain things in the past didn't go the 
way you wanted them to go. You are still resisting what 
happened in the past, and now you are resisting what 
is. Hope is what keeps you going, but hope keeps you 
focused on the future, and this continued focus perpet- 
uates your denial of the Now and therefore your 
unhappiness. 

FORGET ABOUT YOUR LIFE SITUATION for a while 
and pay attention to your life. 

Your life situation exists in time. Your life is 
now. 

Your life situation is mind-stuff Your life is 
real. 

Find the "narrow gate that leads to life." it 
39 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



is called the Now. Narrow your life down to 
this moment. Your life situation may he full of 
problems — most life situations are — but find 
out if you have any problem at this moment. 
Not tomorrow or in ten minutes, but now. Do 
you have a problem now? 

When you are fill! of problems, there is no room 
for anything new to enter* no room for a solution. So 
whenever you can, make some room, create some 
space, so that you find the life underneath your life sit- 
uation. 



USE YOUR SENSES FULLY. Be where you are. Look 
around. Just look, dont interpret. See the light, 
shapes, colors, textures. Be aware of the silent 
presence of each thing. Be aware of the space 
that allows everything to be. 

Listen to the sounds; don't judge them. 
Listen to the silence underneath the sounds. 

Touch something — anything — and feel 
and acknowledge its Being. 

Observe the rhythm of your breathing; feel 
the air flowing in and out, feel the life energy 
inside your body. Allow everything to be, within 
and without. Allow the "isness" of all things. 
Move deeply into the Now. 



40 



ENTERING THE NOW 



You are leaving behind the deadening world of 
mental abstraction, of time. You are getting out of the 
insane mind that is draining you of life energy, just as 
it is slowly poisoning and destroying the Earth. You are 
awakening out of the dream of time into the present 



ALL PROBLEMS ARE ILLUSIONS 
OF THE MIND 

FOCUS YOUR ATTENTION ON THE NOW and tell 
me what problem you have at this moment. 

I am not getting any answer because it is impossible 
to have a problem when your attention is fully in the 
Now. A situation needs to be either dealt with or 
accepted. Why make it into a problem? 

The mind unconsciously loves problems because 
they give you an identity of sorts. This is normal, and 
it is insane. "Problem" means that you are dwelling on 
a situation mentally without there being a true inten- 
tion or possibility of taking action now and that you 
are unconsciously making it part of your sense of self. 
You become so overwhelmed by your life situation that 
you lose your sense of life, of Being. Or you are carry- 
ing in your mind the insane burden of a hundred 
things that you will or may have to do in the future 



41 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



instead of focusing your attention on the one thing 
that you can do now 

WHEN YOU CREATE A PROBLEM, you create pain. 
All it takes is a simple choice, a simple decision: 
No matter what happens, I will create no more 
pain for myself I will create no more problems* 

Although it is a simple choice, it is also very radi- 
cal. You wont make that choice unless you are truly fed 
up with suffering, unless you have truly had enough. 
And you wont be able to go through with it unless you 
access the power of the Now If you create no more 
pain for yourself, then you create no more pain for oth- 
ers. You also no longer contaminate the beautiful 
Earth, your inner space, and the collective human psy- 
che with the negativity of problem making. 

Should a situation arise that you need to deal with 
now, your action will be clear and incisive if it arises out 
of present-moment awareness. It is also more likely to be 
effective. It will not be a reaction coming from the past 
conditioning of your mind but an intuitive response to 
the situation. In other instances, when the time-bound 
mind would have reacted, you will find it more effective 
to do nothing — just stay centered in the Now, 



ENTERING the NOW 



THE JOY OF BEING 

To alert you that you have allowed yourself to be taken 
over by psychological time, you can use a simple criterion. 

ASK YOURSELF: Is there joy ease, and lightness 
in what I am doing? If there isnt, then time 
is covering up the present moment, and life is 
perceived as a burden or a struggle. 

If there is no joy, ease, or lightness in what 
you are doing, it does not necessarily mean that 
you need to change what you are doing. It may 
be sufficient to change the how. "How" is 
always more important than "what." See if you 
can give much more attention to the doing 
than to the result that you want to achieve 
through it. Give your fullest attention to what- 
ever the moment presents. This implies that 
you also completely accept what is, because you 
cannot give your full attention to something 
and at the same time resist it. 



As soon as you honor the present moment, all 
unhappiness and struggle dissolve, and life begins to 
flow with joy and ease. When you act out of present- 
moment awareness, whatever you do becomes imbued 
with a sense of quality, care, and love — even the most 
simple action. 

43 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



DO NOT BE CONCERNED WITH THE FRUIT OF YOUR 
ACTION — just give attention to the action 
itself The fruit will come of its own accord. 
This is a powerful spiritual practice. 



When the compulsive striving away from the 
Now ceases, the joy of Being flows into everything 
you do. The moment your attention turns to the 
Now, you feel a presence, a stillness, a peace. You 
no longer depend on the future for fulfillment and 
satisfaction — you dont look to it for salvation. 
Therefore* you are not attached to the results. Neither 
failure nor success has tbe power to change your inner 
state of Being. You have found the life underneath 
your life situation. 

In the absence of psychological time, your sense 
of self is derived from Being, not from your personal 
past. Therefore, the psychological need to become 
anything other than who you are already is no longer 
there. In the world, on the level of your life situation, 
you may indeed become wealthy, knowledgeable* 
successful, free of this or that, but in the deeper 
dimension of Being you are complete and whole 
now. 



44 



ENTERING THE NOW 



THE TIMELESS STATE OF CONSCIOUSNESS 

When every cell of your body is so present that it feels 
vibrant with life, and when you can feel that life every 
moment as the joy of Being, then it can be said that you 
are free of time. To be free of time is to be free of the psy- 
chological need of the past for your identity and the future 
for your fulfillment. It represents the most profound 
transformation of consciousness that you can imagine. 



WHEN YOU HAVE HAD YOUR FIRST FEW 
GLIMPSES OF THE TIMELESS STATE OF CON- 
SCIOUSNESS, you begin to move back and forth 
between the dimensions of time and presence. 
First you become aware of just how rarely your 
attention is truly in the Now. But to know that 
you are not present is a great success: That 
knowing is presence — even if initially it only 
lasts for a couple of seconds of clock time 
before it is lost again. 

Then, with increasing frequency, you 
choose to have the focus of your consciousness 
in the present moment rather than in the past 
or future, and whenever you realize that you 
had lost the Now, you are able to stay in it not 
just for a couple of seconds, but for longer peri- 
ods as perceived from the external perspective 
of clock time. 



45 



PRACTICENG THE POWER OF NOW 

So before you are firmly established, in the state of 
presence, which is to say, before you are fully conscious, 
you shift back and forth for a while between conscious- 
ness and unconsciousness, between the state of pres- 
ence and the state of mind identification, You lose the 
Now, and you return to it, again and again. Eventually, 
presence becomes your predominant state. 



CHAPTER FOUR 

DISSOLVING UNCONSCIOUSNESS 



ft is essential to bring more consciousness into your life 
in ordinary situations when everything is going rela- 
tively smoothly* fn this way, you grow in presence 
power. It generates an energy field in you and around 
you of a high vibrational frequency. No unconscious- 
ness, no negativity, no discord or violence can enter 
that field and survive, just as darkness cannot survive in 
rhe presence of light. 

When you learn to be the witness of your thoughts 
and emotions, which is an essential part of being pres- 
ent, yon may be surprised when you first become aware 
of the background "static" of ordinary unconsciousness 



4: 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

and realize how rarely, if ever, you are truly at ease 
within yourself* 

On the level of your thinking, you will find a great 
deal of resistance in the form of judgment, discontent, 
and mental projection away from the Now On the 
emotional level, there will he an undercurrent of 
unease, tension, boredom, or nervousness. Both are 
aspects of the mind in its habitual resistance mode. 

OBSERVE THE MANY WAYS IN WHICH UNEASE, 

discontent, and tension arise within you 
through unnecessary judgment* resistance to 
what is> and denial of the Now 

Anything unconscious dissolves when you 
shine the light of consciousness on it. 

Once you know how to dissolve ordinary uncon- 
sciousness, the light of your presence will shine 
brightly and it will be much easier to deal with deep 
unconsciousness whenever you feel its gravitational 
pull. However, ordinary unconsciousness may not be 
easy to detect initially because it is so normal. 

MAKE IT A HABIT TO MONITOR YOUR MENTAL 
AND EMOTIONAL STATE through self-observation. 

"Am I at ease at this moment?" is a good 
question to ask yourself frequendy. 



48 



DISSOLVING UNCONSCIOUSNESS 



Or you can ask: "What s going on inside mc 
at this moment?" 

Be at least as interested in what goes on inside you 
as what happens outside. If you get the inside right, the 
outside will fail into place. Primary reality is within, 
secondary reality without. 

BUT DON'T ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS IMMEDI- 
ATELY. Direct your attention inward. Have a 
look inside yourself 

What kind of thoughts is your mind pro- 
ducing? 

What do you feel? 

Direct your attention into the body Is there 
any tension? 

Once you detect that there is a low level of 
unease, the background static, see in what way 
you are avoiding* resisting, or denying life — 
by denying the Now. 

There are many ways in which people uncon- 
sciously resist the present moment. With practice, your 
power of self-observation, of monitoring your inner 
state, will become sharpened. 



49 



PRACTICING THE POWSR OF NOW 



WHEREVER YOU ARE, BE THERE TOTALLY 

Are you stressed? Are you so busy getting to the future 
that the present is reduced to a means of getting there? 
Stress is caused by being "here* but wanting to be 
"there/ 5 or being in the present but wanting to be in 
the future. Its a split that tears you apart inside. 

Does the past take up a great deal of your atten- 
tion? Do you frequently talk and think about it, 
either positively or negatively? The great things that 
you have achieved, your adventures or experiences, 
or your victim story and the dreadful things that 
were done to you, or maybe what you did to some- 
one else? 

Are your thought processes creating guilt, pride, 
resentment, anger, regret, or self-pity? Then you are 
not only reinforcing a false sense of self but also help- 
ing to accelerate your body's aging process by creating 
an accumulation of past in your psyche. Verify this for 
yourself by observing those around you who have a 
strong tendency to hold on to the past 

DIE TO THE PAST EVERY MOMENT You don't 
need it. Only refer to it when it is absolutely 
relevant to the present. Feel the power of this 
moment and the fullness of Being. Feel your 
presence. 

50 



DISSOLVING UNCONSCIOUSNESS 

Are you worried? Do you have many "what if" 
thoughts? You are identified with your mind, which is 
projecting itself into an imaginary future situation and 
creating fear. There is no way that you can cope with 
such a situation because it doesnt exist. Its a mental 
phantom. 

You can stop this health- and life-corroding insan- 
ity simply by acknowledging the present moment. 

BECOME AWARE OF YOUR BREATHING. Feel the 
air flowing in and out of your body. Feel your 
inner energy field. All that you ever have to deal 
with, cope with, in real life — as opposed to 
imaginary mind projections — is this moment. 

Ask yourself what "problem" you have right 
now, not next year, tomorrow, or five minutes 
from now. What is wrong with this moment? 

You can always cope with the Now, but you can 
never cope with the future — nor do you bave to. The 
answer, the strength, the right action* or the resource 
will be there when you need it, not before, not after. 

Are you a habitual "waiter"? How much of your life do 
you spend waiting? What I call "small-scale waiting" is 
waiting in line at the post office, in a traffic jam> at the 

51 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



airport, or waiting for someone to arrive, to finish 
work* and so on. "Large-scale waiting" is waiting for 
the next vacation, for a better job, for the children to 
grow up, for a truly meaningful relationship, for suc- 
cess, to make money, to be important, to become 
enlightened. It is not uncommon for people to spend 
their whole life waiting to start living. 

Waiting is a state of mind. Basically, it means that 
you want the future; you don't want the present. You 
don't want wbat you've got, and you want what you 
havent got. With every kind of waiting, you uncon- 
sciously create inner conflict between your here and 
now, where you don't want to be, and the projected 
future, where you want to be. This gieatly reduces the 
quality of your life by making you lose the present. 

For example, many people are waiting for prosper- 
ity. It cannot come in the future. When you bonor, 
acknowledge, and fully accept your present reality — 
where you arc, who you are, what you are doing right 
now — when you fully accept what you have got, you 
are grateful for what you have got, grateful for what is, 
grateful for Being. Gratitude for the present moment 
and the fullness of life now is true prosperity. It cannot 
come in the future. Then, in time, that prosperity man- 
ifests for you in various ways. 

If you are dissatisfied with what you have got, or 
even frustrated or angry about your present lack, that 

52 



DISSOLVING UNCONSCIOUSNESS 



may motivate you to become rich, but even if you do 
make millions, you will continue to experience the 
inner condition of lack, and deep down you will con- 
tinue to feel unfulfilled. You may have many exciting 
experiences that money can buy, but they will come 
and go and always leave you with an empty feeling and 
the need for further physical or psychological gratifica- 
tion. You won't abide in Being and so feel the fullness 
of life now that alone is true prosperity. 

GIVE UP WAITING AS A STATE DF MIND. When 
you catch yourself slipping into waiting . . « snap 
out of it. Come into the present moment. Just 
be, and enjoy being. If you are present, tbere is 
never any need for you to wait for anything. 

So next time somebody says, "Sorry to have 
kept you waiting/' you can reply, "Thats all 
right, I wasn't waiting. I was just standing bere 
enjoying myself — in joy in my self." 

These are just a few of the habitual mind strategies 
for denying the present moment that are part of 
ordinary unconsciousness. Tbey are easy to overlook 
because they are so much a part of normal living: the 
background static of perpetual discontent. But the more 
you practice monitoring your inner mental-emotional 
state* the easier it will be to know when you have been 

53 



PRACTICING the POWER OF HOW 



trapped in past or future, wbich is to say unconscious, 
and to awaken out of the dream of time into the present. 

But beware: The false, unhappy self, based on mind 
identification, lives on time. It knows that the present 
moment is its own deatb and so feels very threatened 
by it. It will do all it can to take you out of it. It will try 
to keep you trapped in time. 

In a sense, the state of presence could be compared to 
waiting. It is a qualitatively different kind of waiting, 
one that requires your tot^. alertness. Something could 
happen at any moment, and if you are not absolutely 
awake, absolutely still, you will miss it In that state, all 
your attention is in the Now. There is none left for day- 
dreaming, thinking, remembering, anticipating, There 
is no tension in it, no fear, just alert presence. You are 
present with your whole Being, with every cell of your 
body. 

In that state, the "you" that has a past and a future, 
the personality if you like, is hardly there anymore. 
And yet nothing of value is lost. You are still essentially 
yourself In fact, you are more fully yourself than you 
ever were before, or rather it is only now that you are 
truly yourself 



54 



DISSOLVING UNCONSCIOUSNESS 



THE PAST CANNOT SURVIVE 
IN YOUR PRESENCE 

Whatever you need to know about the unconscious past 
in you, tbe challenges of the present will bring it out. If 
you delve into the past, it will become a bottomless pit: 
There is always more. You may think that you need 
more time to understand the past or become free of it, 
in other words, that the future will eventually free you 
of the past. This is a delusion. Only the present can free 
you of the past. More time cannot free you of time. 

Access the power of Now. That is the key. The power 
of Now is none other than the power of your pres- 
ence, your consciousness liberated from thought 
forms. So deal with the past on the level of the pres- 
ent. The more attention you give to the past* the more 
you energize it, and tbe more likely you are to make a 
"self" out of it. 

Don't misunderstand: Attention is essential, but 
not to the past as past. Give attention to the present; 
give attention to your behavior, to your reactions* 
moods, thoughts, emotions, fears, and desires as they 
occur in the present There's the past in you. If you can 
be present enough to watch all those things, not criti- 
cally or analytically but nonjudgmen tally, then you are 
dealing with the past and dissolving it through the 
power of your presence. 

55 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

You cannot find yourself by going into the past. 
You find yourself by coming into die present. 



CHAPTER FIVE 



BEAUTY ARISES in the STILLNESS 
of YOUR PRESENCE 



Presence is needed to become aware of the beauty the 
majesty die sacredness of nature. Have you ever gazed 
up into the infinity of space on a dear night, awestruck 
by the absolute stillness and inconceivable vastness 
of it? Have you listened, truly listened, Co the sound of 
a mountain stream in the forest? Or to the song of a 
blackbird at dusk on a quiet summer evening? 

To become aware of such things, the mind needs to 
be scilL You have to put down for a moment your per- 
sonal baggage of problems, of past and future, as well 
as all your knowledge; otherwise, you will see bur not 
see, hear but not hear, Your total presence is required, 



57 



PRACTICING THE POWER or NOW 

BEYOND THE BEAUTY OF THE EXTERNAL FORMS, 

there is more here: something that cannot be 
named, something ineffable, some deep, inner, 
holy essence. Whenever and wherever there is 
beauty, this inner essence shines through somehow 
It only reveals itself to you when you are present. 

Could it be that tbis nameless essence and 
your presence are one and the same? 

Would it be there without your presence? 

Go deeply into it Find out for yoursel£ 

<^^> 

REALIZING PURE CONSCIOUSNESS 

Whenever you watch the mind, you withdraw con- 
sciousness from mind forms, which then becomes what 
we call the watcher or the witness. Consequendy, the 
watcher — pure consciousness beyond form — becomes 
stronger, and the mental formations become weaken 

When we talk about watching the mind, we are 
personalizing an event that is truly of cosmic signifi- 
cance: Through you, consciousness is awakening out of 
its dream of identification with form and withdrawing 
from form. This foreshadows, but is already part of, an 
event that is probably still in the distant future as far as 
chronological time is concerned. The event is called — 
the end of the world. 



58 



BEAUTY ARISES IN THE STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 

TO STAY PRESENT IN EVERYOAY LIFE, k helps 
to be deeply rooted within yourself; otherwise, 
the mind, which has incredible momentum, 
will drag you along like a wild river. 

It means to inhabit your body fully. To 
always have some of your attention in the inner 
energy field of your body. To feel the body from 
within, so to speak. Body awareness keeps you 
present. It anchors you in the Now. 

The body that you can see and touch cannot take 
you into Being. But that visible and tangible body is 
only an outer shell, or rather a limited and distorted 
perception of a deeper reality. In your natural state of 
connectedness with Being, this deeper reality can be 
felt every moment as the invisible inner hody, the ani- 
mating presence within you. So to "inhabit the hody" 
is to feel the body from within, to feel the life inside the 
body and thereby come to know that you are heyond 
the outer form. 

You are cut off from Being as long as your mind 
takes up all your attention. When this happens — and 
it happens continuously for most people — you are not 
in your body. The mind absorbs all your consciousness 
and transforms it into mind stuff. You cannot stop 
thinking. 

To become conscious of Being, you need to reclaim 



59 



PRACTICING the POWER OF NOW 



consciousness from the mind. This is one of the most 
essential tasks on your spiritual journey. It will free vast 
amounts of consciousness that previously had been 
trapped in useless and compulsive thinking. A very 
effective way of doing this is simply to take the focus of 
your attention away from thinking and direct it into 
the body, where Being can be felt in the first instance 
as the invisible energy field that gives life to what you 
perceive as the physical body 



CONNECTING WITH THE INNER BODY 

Please try it now. You may find it helpful to close your 
eyes for this practice. Later on, when "being in the 
body' has become natural and easy, this will no longer 
be necessary. 



OIRECT YOUR ATTENTION INTO THE BODY. Feel it 
from within. Is it alive? Is there life in your 
hands, arms> legs, and feet — in your abdomen, 
your chest? 

Can you feel the subtle energy field that 
pervades the entire body and gives vibrant life 
to every organ and every cell? Can you feel 
it simultaneously in all parts of the body as a 
single field of energy? 



60 



BEAUTY ARISES iN the STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 



Keep focusing on the feeling of your inner 
body for a few moments. Do not start to think 
about it. Feel it. 

The more attention you give it, the clearer and 
stronger this feeling will become. It will feel as if every 
cell is becoming more alive, and if you have a strong 
visual sense, you may get an image of your body 
becoming luminous. Although such an image can help 
you temporarily, pay more attention to the feeling than 
to any image that may arise. An image, no matter how 
beautiful or powerful is already defined in form, so 
there is less scope for penetrating more deeply. 



GOING DEEPLY INTO THE BODY 

To go even more deeply into the body> try the follow- 
ing meditation. Ten to fifteen minutes of clock time 
should be sufficient. 



MAKE SURE FIRSTTHATTHERE ARE ND EXTERNAL 
DISTRACTIONS such as telephones or people who 
are likely to interrupt you. Sit on a chair> but 
dont lean back. Keep the spine erect. Doing so 
will help you to stay alert. Alternatively, choose 
your own favorite position for meditation. 

61 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF HOW 



Make sure the body is relaxed. Close your 
eyes. Take a few deep breaths. Feel yourself 
breathing into the lower abdomen, as it were. 
Observe how it expands and contracts slightly 
with each in and out breath. 

Then become aware of the entire inner 
energy field of the body. Dont think about it — 
feci it. By doing this, you reclaim consciousness 
from the mind. If you find it helpful, use the 
"light" visualization I just described. 

When you can feel the inner body clearly as 
a single field of energy, let go, if possible, of any 
visual image and focus exclusively on the feel- 
ing. If you can, also drop any mental image you 
may still have of the physical body: All that is 
left then is an all-encompassing sense of pres- 
ence or "beingness/* and the inner body is felt 
to be without a boundary. 

Then take your attention even more deeply 
into that feeling. Become one with it. Merge 
with the energy field, so that there is no longer 
a perceived duality of the observer and the 
observed, of you and your body. The distinc- 
tion between inner and outer also dissolves 
now, so there is no inner body anymore. By 
going deeply into the body, you have tran- 
scended the body. 

62 



BEAUTY ARISES )H THE STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 



Stay in this realm of pure Being for as long as 
feels comfortable; then become aware again of 
the physical body, your breathing and physical 
senses, and open your eyes. Look at your sur- 
roundings for a few minutes in a meditative way 
— that is, without labeling them mentally — 
and continue to feel the inner body as you do so. 

Having access to that formless realm is truly liber- 
ating. It frees you from bondage to form and identifi- 
cation with form. We may call it the Unmanifested, the 
invisible Source of all things* the Being within all 
beings. It is a realm of deep stillness and peace, but also 
of joy and intense aliveness. Whenever you are present, 
you become 'transparent" to some extent to the light, 
the pure consciousness that emanates from this Source. 
You also realize that the light is not separate from who 
you are but constitutes your very essence. 

When your consciousness is directed outward, mind 
and world arise. When it is directed inward, it realizes its 
own Source and returns home into the Unmanifested. 

Then, when your consciousness comes back to the 
manifested world, you reassume the form identity that 
you temporarily relinquished. You have a name, a past, 
a life situation, a fixture. But in one essential respect, 
you are not the same person you were before: You will 
have glimpsed a reality within yourself that is not «of 

63 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



this world," although it isn't separate from it, just as it 
isn't separate from you. 

Now let your spiritual practice be this: 

AS YOU 60 ABOUT YOUR LIFE, don't give 100 per- 
cent of your attention to the external world and 
to your mind. Keep some within. 

Feel the inner body even when engaged in 
everyday activities, especially when engaged 
in relationships or when you are relating with 
nature. Feel the stillness deep inside it. Keep 
the portal open. 

It is quite possible to be conscious of the 
Unmanifested throughout your life. You feel it 
as a deep sense of peace somewhere in the 
background, a stillness that never leaves you, 
no matter what happens out here. You become 
a bridge between the Unmanifested and the 
manifested, between God and the world. 

This is the state of connectedness with the 
Source that we call enlightenment. 



HAVE OEEP ROOTS WITHIN 

The key is to be in a state of permanent connectedness 
with your inner body — to feel it at all times. This will 

64 



BEAUTY ARISES IN THE STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 

rapidly deepen and transform your life. The more con- 
sciousness you direct into the inner body, the higher its 
vibrational frequency becomes, much like a light that 
grows brighter as you turn up the dimmer switch and 
so increase the flow of electricity. At this higher energy 
level, negativity cannot affect you anymore, and you 
tend to attract new circumstances that reflect this 
higher frequency. 

If you keep your attention in the body as much as 
possible, you will be anchored in the Now. You won't 
lose yourself in the external world, and you won't lose 
yourself in your mind. Thoughts and emotions, fears 
and desires may still be there to some extent, but they 
won't take you over. 

PLEASE EXAMINE WHERE YOUR ATTENTION IS at 

this moment. You are listening to me, or you 
are reading these words in a book. That is the 
focus of your attention. You are also peripher- 
ally aware of your surroundings, other people, 
and so on. Furthermore, there may be some 
mind activity around what you are hearing or 
reading, some mental commentary. 

Yet there is no need for any of this to absorb 
all your attention. See if you can be in touch 
with your inner body at the same time. Keep 
some of your attention within. Don't let it all 



65 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



flow out. Feel your whole body from within, as 
a single field of energy It is almost as if you 
were listening or reading with your whole body 
Let this be your practice in the days and weeks 
to come. 

Do not give all your attention away to the 
mind and the external world. By all means 
focus on what you are doing, but feel the inner 
body at the same time whenever possible. Stay 
rooted within. Then observe how this changes 
your state of consciousness and the quality of 
what you are doing. 

Please dont just accept or reject what 1 am saying. 
Put it to the test. 



STRENGTHENING THE IMMUNE SYSTEM 

There is a simple but powerful self-healing meditation 
that you can do whenever you feel the need to boost 
your immune system. It is particularly effective if used 
when you feel the first symptoms of an illness, but it 
also works with illnesses that arc already entrenched if 
you use it at frequent intervals and with an intense 
focus. It will also counteract any disruption of your 
energy field by some form of negativity. 

66 



BEAUTY ARISES m TH£ STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 

It is not a substitute, however> for the moment-to- 
moment practice of being in the body; otherwise, its 
effect will only be temporary. Here it is. 

WHEN YOU ARE UNOCCUPIED FOR A FEW MIN- 
UTES, and especially last thing at night before 
falling asleep and first thing in the morning 
before getting up, "flood" your body with con- 
sciousness. Close your eyes. Lie Bat on your 
back. Choose different parts of your body to 
focus your attention on briefiy at first: hands, 
feet, arms, legs> abdomen, chest* head, and so 
on. Feel the life energy inside those parts as 
intensely as you can. Stay with each part for fif- 
teen seconds or so. 

Then let your attention run through the 
body like a wave a few times, from feet to head 
and back again. This need only take a minute 
or so. After that, feel the inner body in its total- 
ity as a single field of energy. Hold that feeling 
for a few minutes. 

Be intensely present during that time, pres- 
ent in every cell of your body. 

Don't be concerned if the mind occasionally suc- 
ceeds in drawing your attention out of the body and 
you lose yourself in some thought. As soon as you 



67 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



notice that this has happened, just return your atten- 
tion to the inner body 

CREATIVE USEOFMINO 

If you need to use your mind for a specific purpose, use 
it in conjunction with your inner body Only if you are 
able to be conscious without thought can you use your 
mind creatively, and the easiest way to enter that state 
is through your body. 

WHENEVER AN ANSWER, A SOLUTION, OR A CRE- 
ATIVE IDEA IS NEEOED, stop thinking for a 
moment hy focusing attention on your inner 
energy field. Become aware of the stillness. 

When you resume thinking, it will be fresh 
and creative. In any thought activity, make it a 
habit to go back and forth every few minutes or 
so between thinking and an inner kind of lis- 
tening, an inner stillness. 

We could say: Dont just think with your 
head, think with your whole body. 



68 



BEAUTY ARISES IN THE STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE 



LET THE BREATH TAKE YOU INTO THE BODY 

If at any time you are finding it hard to get in touch 
with the inner body, it is usually easier to focus on your 
breathing first. Conscious breathing, which is a power- 
ful meditation in its own right* will gradually put you 
in touch with the body. 

FOLLOW THE BREATH WITH YOUR ATTENTION as 

it moves in and out of your body. Breathe into 
the body, and feel your abdomen expand- 
ing and contracting slightly with each inhala- 
tion and exhalation. 

If you find it easy to visualize, close your 
eyes and see yourself surrounded by light or 
immersed in a luminous substance — a sea of 
consciousness. Then breathe in that light. Feel 
that luminous substance filling up your body 
and making it luminous also. 

Then gradually focus more on the feeling. 
Dont get attached to any visual image. You are 
now in your body. You have accessed the power 
of Now. 



69 



PART TWO 

RELATIONSHIP as 
SPIRITUAL PRACTICE 



hove is a state &f Being. 
Your love is not outside; h is deep within you. 
You cm never lose it> and it cannot leave you. 
It is not dependent on some other body> 
some external form, 




The greater part of human pain is unnecessary; It is sell- 
created as long as the unobserved mind runs your life- 
The pain that you create now is always some form of 
nonacceptance, some form of unconscious resistance to 
what is. 

On die level of thought, the resistance is some form 
of judgment. On the emotional level, it is some form of 
negativity. The intensity of the pain depends on the 
degree of resistance to the present moment, and this in 
turn depends on how strongly you are identified with 
your mind- The mind always seeks to deny the Now 
and to escape from it. 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



In other words, the more you are identified with 
your mind, the more you suffer. Or you may put it like 
this: The more you are able to honor and accept the 
Now, the more you are free of pain, of suffering — and 
free of the egoic mind. 

Some spiritual teachings state that all pain is ulti- 
mately an illusion, and this is true. The question is: Is 
it true for you? A mere belief doesn't make it true. Do 
you want to experience pain for the rest of your life and 
keep saying that it is an illusion? Does that free you 
from the pain? What we are concerned with here is 
how you can realize this truth — that is, make it real in 
your own experience. 

Pain is inevitable as long as you are identified with 
your mind, which is to say as long as you are uncon- 
scious, spiritually speaking. I am talking here prima- 
rily of emotional pain, which is also the main cause 
of physical pain and physical disease. Resentment, 
hatred, self-pity, guilt, anger, depression, jealousy, and 
so on, even the slightest irritation, are all forms of 
pain. And every pleasure or emotional high contains 
within itself the seed of pain: its inseparable opposite, 
which will manifest in time. 

Anybody who has ever taken drugs to get "high" 
will know that the high eventually turns into a low, 
that the pleasure turns into some form of pain. Many 



74 



DISSOLVING THE PAIN-BODY 



people also know from their own experience how easily 
and quickly an intimate relationship can turn from 
a source of pleasure to a source of pain. Seen from a 
higher perspective, both the negative and the positive 
polarities are faces of the same coin, are part of the 
underlying pain that is inseparable from the mind- 
identified egoic state of consciousness. 

There are two levels to your pain: the pain that you 
create now, and the pain from the past that still lives on 
in your mind and body. 

As long as you are unable to access the power of the 
Now, every emotional pain that you experience leaves 
behind a residue of pain that lives on in you. It merges 
with the pain from the past, which was already there, 
and becomes lodged in your mind and body. This, of 
course, includes the pain you suffered as a child, caused 
by the unconsciousness of the world into which you 
were born. 

This accumulated pain is a negative energy field 
that occupies your body and mind. If you look on it as 
an invisible entity in its own right, you are getting quite 
close to the truth. Its the emotional pain-body. 

The pain-body has two modes of being: dormant 
and active. It may be dormant 90 percent of the time; 
in a deeply unhappy person, though, it may be active 
up to 100 percent of the time. Some people live almost 
entirely through their pain-body, while others may 

75 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



experience it only in certain situations, such as inti- 
mate relationships, or situations linked with past 
loss or abandonment, physical or emotional hurt, and 
so on. 

Anything can trigger it, particularly if it resonates 
with a pain pattern from your past. When it is ready to 
awaken from its dormant stage* even a thought or an 
innocent remark made by someone close to you can 
activate it. 



BREAKING IDENTIFICATION 
WITH THE PAIN-BODY 

THE PAIN-BODY DOESN'T WANT YOU TO OBSERVE 
IT DIRECTLY and see it for what it is. The 
moment you observe the pain-body, feel its 
energy field within you* and take your atten- 
tion into it, the identification is broken. 

A higher dimension of consciousness has 
come in. I call it presence. You are now the wit- 
ness or the watcher of the pain-body. This 
means that it cannot use you anymore by pre- 
tending to be you, and it can no longer replen- 
ish itself through you. You have found your 
own innermost strength. 



76 



DISSOLVING the PAIN-BODY 



Some pain-bodies are obnoxious but relatively 
harmless, for example* like a child who wont stop whin- 
ing. Others are vicious and destructive monsters* true 
demons. Some are physically violent; many more are 
emotionally violent. Some will attack people around 
you or close to you, while others may attack you* their 
host. Thoughts and feelings you have about your life 
then become deeply negative and self-destructive. 
Illnesses and accidents are often created in this way. 
Some pain-bodies drive their hosts to suicide. 

When you thought you knew a person and then 
you are suddenly confronted with this alien, nasty crea- 
ture for the first time* you are in for quite a shock. It is 
more important, however, to observe it in yourself than 
in someone else. 

WATCH OUT FOR ANY SIGN OF UNHAPPINESS IN 
YOURSELF in whatever form — it may be the 

awakening pain-body. This can take the form of 
irritation, impatience, a somber mood, a desire to 
hurt* anger, rage, depression, a need to have some 
drama in your relationship, and so on. Catch it 
the moment it awakens from its dormant state. 

The pain-body wants to survive* just like every 
other entity in existence, and it can only survive if it gets 

77 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



you to unconsciously identify with it. It can then rise 
up, take you over, "become you/' and live through you. 

It needs to get its "food" through you. It will feed 
on any experience that resonates with its own kind of 
energy, anything that creates further pain in whatever 
form: anger, destructiveness, hatred, grief, emotional 
drama, violence, and even illness. So the pain-body, 
when it has taken you over, will create a situation in 
your life that reflects back its own energy frequency for 
it to feed on. Pain can only feed on pain. Pain cannot 
feed on joy. It finds it quite indigestible. 

Once the pain-hody has taken you over, you want 
more pain. You become a victim or a perpetrator. You 
want to inflict pain, or you want to suffer pain, or 
both, There isnt really much difference between the 
two. You are not conscious of this, of course, and will 
vehemently claim that you do not want pain. But look 
closely and you will find that your thinking and behav- 
ior are designed to keep the pain going, for yourself 
and others. If you were truly conscious of it, the pat- 
tern would dissolve, for to want more pain is insanity, 
and nobody is consciously insane. 

The pain-body, which is the dark shadow cast by 
the ego, is actually afraid of the light of your con- 
sciousness. It is afraid of being found out Its survival 
depends on your unconscious identification with it, as 
well as on your unconscious fear of facing the pain that 

78 



DISSOLVING THE PAIN -BODY 



lives in you. But if you dont face it, if you don't bring 
the light of your consciousness into the pain, you will 
be forced to relive it again and again. 

The pain-body may seem to you like a dangerous 
monster that you cannot bear to look at, but I assure 
you that it is an insubstantial phantom that cannot pre- 
vail against the power of your presence, 

WHEN YOU BECOME THE WATCHER and start to 
disidentify, the pain-body will continue to oper- 
ate for a while and will try to trick you into iden- 
tifying with it again. Although you are no longer 
energizing it through your identification, it has a 
certain momentum, just like a spinning wheel 
that will keep turning for a while even when it is 
no longer being propelled. At this stage, it may 
also create physical aches and pains in different 
parts of the body, but they wont last. 

Stay present, stay conscious. Be the ever- 
alert guardian of your inner space. You need to 
be present enough to be able to watch the pain- 
body directly and feel its energy. It then cannot 
control your thinking. 

The moment your thinking is aligned with the 
energy field of the pain-body, you are identified with it 
and again feeding it with your thoughts. For example, 

79 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



if anger is the predominant energy vibration of the 
pain-body and you think angry thoughts, dwelling on 
what someone did to you or what you are going to do 
to him or her, then you have become unconscious, and 
the pain-body has become "you. " Where there is anger, 
there is always pain underneath. 

Or when a dark mood comes upon you and you 
start getting into a negative mind-pattern and think- 
ing how dreadful your life is, your thinking has 
become aligned with the pain-body, and you have 
become unconscious and vulnerable to the pain-body's 
attack. 

"Unconscious," the way that I use the word here, 
means to be idenrified with some mental or emotional 
pattern. It implies a complete absence of the watcher. 



TRANSMUTING SUFFERING 
INTO CONSCIOUSNESS 

Sustained conscious attention severs the link between 
the pain-body and your thought processes and brings 
about the process of transmutation. It is as if the pain 
becomes fuel for the flame of your consciousness, 
which then burns more brightly as a result. 

This is the esoteric meaning of the ancient art of 
alchemy: the transmutation of base metal into gold, 

80 



DISSOLVING THE PAIN-BODY 



of suffering into consciousness. The split within is 
healed, and you become whole again. Your responsi- 
bility then is not to create further pain. 

FOCUS ATTENTION ON THE FEELING INSIOE YOU. 

Know that it is the pain-body. Accept that it is 
there. Don't think about it — don't let the feel- 
ing turn into thinking. Don't judge or analyze. 
Don't make an identity for yourself out of it. 
Stay present, and continue to be the observer of 
what is happening inside you. 

Become aware not only of the emotional 
pain but also of "the one who observes," the 
silent watcher. This is the power of the Now, 
the power of your own conscious presence. 
Then see what happens. 



EGO IDENTIFICATION 
WITH THE PAIN-BOOY 

The process that I have just described is profoundly 
powerful yet simple. It could be taught to a child, and 
hopefully one day it will be one of the first things chil- 
dren learn in school. Once you have understood the 
basic principle of being present as the watcher of what 
happens inside you — and you "understand" it by 

81 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



experiencing it — you have at your disposal the most 
potent transformational tool. 

This is not to deny that you may encounter 
intense inner resistance to disidentifying from your 
pain. This will be the case particularly if you have 
lived closely identified with your emotional pain- 
body for most of your life and the whole or a large 
part of your sense of self is invested in it. What this 
means is that you have made an unhappy self out of 
your pain-body and believe that this mind-made fic- 
tion is who you are. In that case, unconscious fear of 
losing your identity will create strong resistance to 
any disidentification. In other words, you would 
rather be in pain — be the pain-body — than take a 
leap into the unknown and risk losing the familiar 
unhappy self. 

OBSERVE THE RESISTANCE WITHIN YOURSELF; 

Observe the attachment to your pain. Be very 
alert. Observe the peculiar pleasure you derive 
from being unhappy. Observe the compulsion 
to talk or think about it. The resistance will 
cease if you make it conscious. 

You can then take your attention into the 
pain-body, stay present as the witness, and so 
initiate its transmutation. 



DISSOLVING THE PAIN-BODY 



Only you can do this. Nobody can do it for you. 
But if you are fortunate enough to find someone who 
is intensely conscious, if you can be with them and join 
them in the state of presence, that can be helpful and 
will accelerate things. In this way, your own light will 
quickly grow stronger. 

When a log that has only just started to burn is 
placed next to one that is burning fiercely and after a 
while they are separated again, the first log will be hum- 
ing with much greater intensity. After all, it is the same 
fire. To be such a fire is one of the functions of a spiri- 
tual teacher. Some therapists may also be able to fulfill 
that function, provided that they have gone beyond the 
level of mind and can create and sustain a state of intense 
conscious presence while they are working with you. 

The first thing to remember is this: As long as you 
make an identity for yourself out of the pain, you can- 
not become free of it. As long as part of your sense of 
self is invested in your emotional pain, you will uncon- 
sciously resist or sabotage every attempt that you make 
to heal that pain. 

Why? Quite simply because you want to keep your- 
self intact, and the pain has become an essential part of 
you. This is an unconscious process, and the only way 
to overcome it is to make it conscious. 

83 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

THE POWER OFYOUR PRESENCE 

TO SUDDENLY SEE that you are or have been 
attached to your pain can be quite a shocking 
realization. The moment you realize this, you 
have broken the attachment 

The pain-body is an energy field, almost like an 
entity that has become temporarily lodged in your 
inner space. It is life energy that has become trapped, 
energy that is no longer flowing. 

Of course, the pain-hody is there because of certain 
things that happened in the past. It is the living past in 
you, and if you identify with it, you identify with the 
past. A victim identity is the belief that the past is more 
powerful than the present, which is the opposite of the 
truth. It is the belief that other people and what they 
did to you are responsible for who you are now, for your 
emotional pain or your inability to be your true self 

The truth is that the only power there is, is con- 
tained within this moment: It is the power of your pres- 
ence. Once you know that, you also realize that you are 
responsible for your inner space now — nobody else is 
— and that the past cannot prevail against the power of 
the Now. 

Unconsciousness creates it; consciousness trans- 
mutes it into itself St. Paul expressed this universal 
principle beautifully: "Everything is shown up by being 

8 4 



DISSOLVING THE PAIN-BODY 



exposed to the light, and whatever is exposed to the 
light itself becomes light." 

Just as you cannot fight the darkness, you cannot 
fight the pain-body. Trying to do so would create inner 
conflict and thus further pain. Watching it is enough. 
Watching it implies accepting it as part of what is at 
that moment. 



85 



CHAPTER SEVEN 



FROM ADDICTIVE to 
ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 



LOVE/HATE RELATIONSHIPS 

Unless and until you access the consciousness fre- 
quency of presence, all relationships, and particularly 
intimate relationships, are deeply flawed and ultimately 
dysfunctional. They may seem perfect for a while, such 
as when you are "in love/ 1 but invariably that apparent 
perfection gets disrupted as arguments, conflicts, dis- 
satisfaction, and emotional or even physical violence 
occur with increasing frequency- 

It seems that most "love relationships" become 
love/ hate relationships before long. Love can then turn 
into savage attack, feelings of hostility, or complete 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

withdrawal of affection at the flick of a switch. This is 
considered normal. 

If in your relationships you experience both 'love" 
and the opposite of love — attack, emotional violence, 
and so on — then it is likely that you are confusing ego 
attachment and addictive clinging with love. You can- 
not love your partner one moment and attack him or 
her the next. True love has no opposite. If your "love" 
has an opposite, then it is not love but a strong ego- 
need for a more complete and deeper sense of self, a 
need that the other person temporarily meets. It is the 
egos substitute for salvation, and for a short time it 
almost does feel like salvation. 

But there comes a point when your partner behaves 
in ways that fail to meet your needs, or rather those of 
your ego. The feelings of fear, pain, and lack that are an 
intrinsic part of egoic consciousness but had been cov- 
ered up by the 'love relationship" now resurface. 

Just as with every other addiction you are on a 
high when the drug is available, but invariably there 
comes a time when the drug no longer works for you. 

When those painful feelings reappear, you feel 
them even more strongly than before, and what is 
more, you now perceive your partner as the cause of 
those feelings. This means that you project them out- 
ward and attack the other with all the savage violence 
that is part of your pain. 

88 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 



This attack may awaken the partners own pain* and 
he or she may counter your attack. At this point, the ego 
is still unconsciously hoping that its attack or its 
attempts at manipulation will be sufficient punishment 
to induce your partner to change their behavior, so that 
it can use them again as a cover-up for your pain. 

Every addiction arises from an unconscious refusal 
to face and move through your own pain. Every addic- 
tion starts with pain and ends with pain. Whatever the 
substance you are addicted to — alcohol, food, legal or 
illegal drugs, or a person — you are using something 
or somebody to cover up your pain. 

That is why, after the initial euphoria has passed, 
there is so much unhappincss, so much pain in inti- 
mate relationships. They do not cause pain and unhap- 
pincss. They bring out the pain and unhappiness that 
is already in you. Every addiction does that. Every 
addiction reaches a point where it does not work 
for you anymore* and then you feel the pain more 
intensely than ever. 

This is one reason why most people are always try- 
ing to escape from the present moment and are seeking 
some kind of salvation in the future. The first thing 
that they might encounter if they focused their atten- 
tion on the Now is their own pain, and this is what 
they fear. If they only knew how easy it is to access in 
the Now the power of presence that dissolves the past 

89 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



and its pain, the reality that dissolves the illusion. If 
they only knew how close they are to their own reality* 
how close to God. 

Avoidance of relationships in an attempt to avoid 
pain is not the answer either. The pain is there anyway 
Three failed relationships in as many years are more 
likely to force you into awakening than three years on 
a desert island or shut away in your room. But if you 
could bring intense presence into your aloncness, that 
would work for you too. 

FROM AODICTIVETO 
ENLTGHTENEO RELATIONSHIPS 

WHETHER YOU ARE LIVING ALONE OR WITH A 
PARTNER, this remains the key: being present 
and intensifying your presence by taking your 
attention ever more deeply into the Now. 

For love to flourish, the light of your pres- 
ence needs to be strong enough so that you no 
longer get taken over by the thinker or the 
pain-body and mistake them for who you are. 

To know yourself as the Being underneath 
the thinker, the stillness underneath the mental 
noise, the love and joy underneath the pain, is 
freedom, salvation, enlightenment. 

90 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 

To disidentify from the pain-body is to bring pres- 
ence into the pain and thus transmute it. To disiden- 
tify from thinking is to be the silent watcher of your 
thoughts and behavior, especially the repetitive pat- 
terns of your mind and the roles played by the ego. 

If you stop investing it with "selfhess," the mind loses 
its compulsive quality, which basically is the compulsion 
to judge, and so to resist what is, which creates conflict, 
drama, and new pain. In fact, the moment that judgment 
stops through acceptance of what is, you are free of the 
mind. You have made room for love, for joy, for peace. 

FIRST YOU STOP JUOSING YOURSELF; then you 
stop judging your partner. The greatest cata- 
lyst for change in a relationship is complete 
acceptance of your partner as he or she is, 
without needing to judge or change them in 
any way. 

That immediately takes you beyond ego. 
All mind games and all addictive clinging are 
then over. There are no victims and no perpe- 
trators anymore, no accuser and accused. 

This is also the end of all codependency, of being 
drawn into somebody elses unconscious pattern and 
thereby enabling it to continue. You will then either 
separate — in love — or move ever more deeply into 

91 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



the Now together, into Being. Can it be that simple? 
Yes, it is that simple 

Love is a state of Being. Your love is not outside; it 
is deep within you. You can never lose it, and it cannot 
leave you. It is not dependent on some other body, 
some external form, 



IN THE STILLNESS OF YOUR PRESENCE, you can 

feel your own formless and timeless reality as the 
unmanifested life that animates your physical 
form. You can then feel the same life deep within 
every other human and every other creature. You 
look beyond the veil of form and separation. 
This is the realization of oneness. This is love. 



Although brief glimpses are possible, love cannot 
flourish unless you are permanently free of mind iden- 
tification and your presence is intense enough to have 
dissolved the pain-body — or you can at least remain 
present as the watcher. The pain-body cannot then take 
you over and so become destructive of love. 



RELATIONSHIPS AS SPIRITUAL PRACTICE 

As humans have become increasingly identified with 
their mind, most relationships are not rooted in Being 



92 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 

and so turn into a source of pain and become domi- 
nated by problems and conflict. 

If relationships energize and magnify egoic mind 
patterns and activate the pain-body, as they do at this 
time, why not accept this fact rather than try to escape 
from it? Why not cooperate with it instead of avoiding 
relationships or continuing to pursue the phantom of 
an ideal partner as an answer to your problems or a 
means of feeling fulfilled? 

With the acknowledgment and acceptance of the 
facts also comes a degree of freedom from them. 

For example, when you know there is disharmony 
and you hold that "knowing," through your knowing a 
new factor has come in, and the disharmony cannot 
remain unchanged. 

WHEN YOU KNOW YOU ARE NOT AT PEACE, your 
knowing creates a still space that surrounds 
your nonpeace in a loving and tender embrace 
and then transmutes your nonpeace into 
peace. 

As far as inner transformation is concerned, 
there is nothing you can do about it. You can- 
not transform yoursel£ and you certainly 
cannot transform your partner or anybody else. 
All you can do is create a space for transforma- 
tion to happen, for grace and love to enter. 



93 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



So whenever your relationship is not working, 
whenever it brings out the "madness" in you and in your 
partner, be glad. What was unconscious is being brought 
up to the light. It is an opportunity for salvation. 

EVERY MOMENT, HOLO THE KNOWING OF THAT 
MOMENT, particularly of your inner state. If 
there is anger, know that there is anger. If there 

is jealousy defensiveness, the urge to argue, the 
need to be right, an inner child demanding love 
and attention, or emotional pain of any kind 
— whatever it is, know the reality of that 
moment and hold the knowing. 

The relationship then becomes your sadhana, your 
spiritual practice. If you observe unconscious behavior 
in your partner, hold it in the loving embrace of your 
knowing so that you wont react. 

Unconsciousness and knowing cannot coexist for 
long — even if the knowing is only in the other per- 
son and not in the one who is acting out the uncon- 
sciousness. The energy form tbat lies behind hostility 
and attack finds the presence of love absolutely intol- 
erable. If you react at all to your partners uncon- 
sciousness, you become unconscious yourself. But 
if you then remember to know your reaction, nothing 
is lost. 

94 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 

Never before have relationships been as problem- 
atic and conflict ridden as tbey are now. As you may 
have noticed, they are not here to make you happy or 
fulfilled. If you continue to pursue the goal of salvation 
through a relationship, you will be disillusioned again 
and again. But if you accept that the relationship is 
here to make you conscious instead of happy, then the 
relationship will offer you salvation, and you will be 
aligning yourself with the higher consciousness that 
wants to be born into this world. 

For those who hold on to the old patterns, there will 
be increasing pain, violence, confusion, and madness. 

How many people does it take to make your life into a 
spiritual practice? Never mind if your partner will not 
cooperate. Sanity — consciousness — can only come 
into this world through you. You do not need to wait 
for the world to become sane, or for somebody else to 
become conscious, before you can be enlightened. You 
may wait forever. 

Do not accuse each other of being unconscious. 
The moment you start to argue, you bave identified 
with a mental position and are now defending not only 
that position but also your sense of self. The ego is in 
charge. You have become unconscious. At times, it may 
be appropriate to point out certain aspects of your part- 
ners behavior. If you are very alert, very present, you 

95 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



can do so without ego involvement — without blam- 
ing, accusing* or making the other wrong. 

When your partner behaves unconsciously, relin- 
quish all judgment Judgment is either to confuse 
someone's unconscious behavior with who they are or 
to project your own unconsciousness onto another per- 
son and mistake that for who they are. 

To relinquish judgment does not mean that you do 
not recognize dysfunction and unconsciousness when 
you see it. It means "being the knowing 1 rather than 
"being the reaction" and the judge. You will then either 
be totally free of reaction or you may react and still be 
the knowing, the space in which the reaction is 
watched and allowed to be. Instead of fighting the 
darkness, you bring in the light. Instead of reacting to 
delusion, you see the delusion yet at the same time look 
through it. 

Being the knowing creates a clear space of loving 
presence that allows all things and all people to be as 
they are. No greater catalyst for transformation exists. 
If you practice this, your partner cannot stay with you 
and remain unconscious. 

If you both agree that the relationship will be your 
spiritual practice, so much the better. You can then 
express your thoughts and feelings to each other as soon 
as they occur* or as soon as a reaction comes up, so that 
you do not create a time gap in which an unexpressed 



96 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 



or unacknowledged emotion or grievance can fester and 
grow. 

LEARN TO 0IVE EXPRESSION to what you feel 
without blaming. Learn to listen to your part- 
ner in an open, nondefensive way. 

Give your partner space for expressing him- 
self or herself. Be present. Accusing, defending, 
attacking — ail those patterns that are designed 
to strengthen or protect the ego or to get its 
needs met will then become redundant. Giving 
space to others — and to yourself — is vital. 
Love cannot flourish without it. 



When you have removed the two factors that are 
destructive of relationships — when the pain-body has 
been transmuted and you are no longer identified with 
mind and mental positions — and if your partner has 
done the same, you will experience the bliss of the 
flowering of relationship. Instead of mirroring to each 
other your pain and your unconsciousness, instead of 
satisfying your mutual addictive ego needs, you will 
reflect back to each other the love that you feel deep 
within, the love that comes with the realization of your 
oneness with all that is. 

This is the love that has no opposite. 

If your partner is still identified with the mind and 

97 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



the pain-body while you are already free, this will rep- 
resent a major challenge — not to you but to your 
partner. It is not easy to live with an enlightened per- 
son, or rather it is so easy that the ego finds it extremely 
threatening. 

Remember that the ego needs problems, conflict, 
and "enemies" to strengthen the sense of separateness on 
which its identity depends. The unenlightened partners 
mind wiJ] be deeply frustrated because its fixed positions 
are not resisted, which means they will become shaky 
and weak, and there is even the "danger" that they may 
collapse altogether, resulting in Joss of self 

The pain-body is demanding feedback and not get- 
ting it The need for argument, drama, and conflict is 
not being met. 



GIVE UP THE RELATIONSHIP 
WITH YOURSELF 

Enlightened or not, you are either a man or a woman, so 
on the level of your form identity you are not complete. 
You are one-half of the whole. This incompleteness is felt 
as male-female attraction, the pulJ toward the opposite 
energy polarity, no matter how conscious you are. But in 
that state of inner connectedness, you feel this pulJ 
somewhere on the surface or periphery of your life. 

98 



FROM ADDICTIVE TO ENLIGHTENED RELATIONSHIPS 



This does not mean that you don t relate deeply to 
other people or to your partner. In fact, you can relate 
deeply only if you are conscious of Being. Coming 
from Being, you are able to focus beyond the veil of 
form. In Being, male and female are one. Your form 
may continue to have certain needs, but Being has 
none. It is already complete and whole. If those needs 
are met, that is beautiful, but whether or not they are 
met makes no difference to your deep inner state. 

So it is perfecdy possible for an enlightened person, 
if the need for the male or female polarity is not met, 
to feel a sense of lack or incompleteness on the outer 
level of his or her being, yet at the same time be totally 
complete, fulfilled, and at peace within. 

If you cannot be at ease with yourself when you are 
alone, you will seek a relationship to cover up your 
unease. You can be sure that the unease wil] then reap- 
pear in some other form within the relationship, and 
you will probably hold your partner responsible for it. 

ALL YOU REALLY NEED TO DO IS ACCEPT THIS 
MOMENT FULLY, You are then at ease in the here 
and now and at ease with yourself. 

But do you need to have a relationship with yourself 
at all? Why cant you just be yourself? When you have a 
relationship with yourself, you have split yourself into 



99 



PRACTICING the POWER OF NOW 



two: T" and "myself," subject and object. That mind- 
created duality is the root cause of all unnecessary com- 
plexity, of all problems and conflict in your life. 

In the state of enlightenment, you are yourself — 
"you 1 and 'yourself" merge into one. You do not 
judge yourself, you do nor feel sorry for yourself, you 
are nor proud of yourself, you do not loye yourself, 
you do not hate yourself, and so on. The split caused 
by self- reflective consciousness is healed, its curse 
removed. There is no "self thar you need to protect, 
defend, or feed anymore. 

When you are en lightened, rhere is one relation- 
ship that you no longer have: the relationship with 
yourself. Once you have given rhat up, all your other 
relationships will be love relationships, 



lO(J 



P A, T T H R U E 



ACCEPTANCE an 
SURRENDER 



When yon surrender to what is 
and so beco me fully present* 
the past ceases to have any power, 
e realm of Being;, which had been obscured by 

the mind, then opens up* 
Suddenly, a great stillness arises within you, 
an unfathomable sense of peace, 
And within that peace, there is great joy. 
And within that jay, there is lorn. 



And at the innermost core, there is the sacred, 



the immeasurable, Thai 


* which cannot be 


named. 



















CHAPTER F. i G H T 



ACCEPTANCE of the NOW 




IM PERMANENCE AND THE CYCLES OF LIFE 

There are cycles of success, when things come to you 
and thrive, and cycles of failure, when they wither or 
disintegrate, and you have to let them go in order to 
make room for new things to arise, or for trans forma- 
tion to happen. 

If you cling and resist at that point, it means you are 
refusing to go with the flow of life, and you will suffer, 
Dissolution is needed for new growth to happen, One 
cycle cannot exist without the other. 

The down cycle k absolutely essential for spiritual 
realization. You must have failed deeply on some level 
or experienced some deep loss or pain ro be drawn to 



i o > 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



the spiritual dimension. Or perhaps your very success 
became empty and meaningless and so turned out to 
be failure. 

Failure lies concealed in every success, and success 
in every failure. In this world, which is to say on the 
level of form, everybody "fails" sooner or later, of 
course* and every achievement eventually comes to 
naught All forms are impermanent. 

You can still be active and enjoy manifesting and 
creating new forms and circumstances > but you wont 
be identified with them. You do not need them to give 
you a sense of self. They are not your life — only your 
life situation. 

A cycle can last for anything from a few hours to a 
few years. There are large cycles and small cycles within 
these large ones. Many illnesses are created through fight- 
ing against the cycles of low energy, which are vital for 
regeneration. Ilie compulsion to do, and the tendency to 
derive your sense of self-worth and identity ftom external 
factors such as achievement, is an inevitable illusion as 
long as you are identified with the mind. 

This makes it hard or impossible for you to accept 
the low cycles and allow them to he. Thus* thfc intelli- 
gence of the organism may take over as a self-protective 
measure and create an illness in order to force you to 
stop* so that the necessary regeneration can take place. 

As long as a condition is judged as * good" by your 



104 



ACCEPTANCE or the NOW 



mind, whether it be a relationship, a possession, a social 
role, a place, or your physical body, the mind attaches 
itself to it and identifies with it. It makes you happy, 
makes you feel good about yourself, and it may become 
part of who you are or think you are. 

But nothing lasts in this dimension where moth 
and rust consume. Either it ends or it changes, or it 
may undergo a polarity shift: The same condition that 
was good yesterday or last year has suddenly or gradu- 
ally turned into bad. The same condition that made 
you happy then makes you unhappy. The prosperity of 
today becomes the empty consumerism of tomorrow. 
The happy wedding and honeymoon become the 
unhappy divorce or the unhappy coexistence. 

Or a condition disappears, so its absence makes you 
unhappy. When a condition or situation that the mind 
has attached itself to and identified with changes or dis- 
appears, the mind cannot accept it. It will cling to the 
disappearing condition and resist the change. It is 
almost as if a limb were being torn off your body. 

This means that your happiness and unhappiness 
are in fact one. Only the illusion of time separates them. 

TO OFFER NO RESISTANCE TO LIFE is to be in a 

state of grace, ease, and lightness. This state is 
then no longer dependent upon things being in 
a certain way, good or bad. 

105 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



It seems almost paradoxical, yet when your inner 
dependency on form is gone, the general conditions of 
your life, the outer forms, tend to improve greatly 
Things, people, or conditions that you thought you 
needed for your happiness now come to you with no 
struggle or effort on your part, and you are free to 
enjoy and appreciate them — while they last. 

All those things, of course, will still pass away, 
cycles will come and go, but with dependency gone 
there is no fear of loss anymore. Life flows with ease. 

The happiness that is derived from some second- 
ary source is never very deep. It is only a pale reflection 
of the joy of Being, the vibrant peace that you find 
within as you enter the state of nonresistance. Being 
takes you beyond the polar opposites of the mind and 
frees you from dependency on form. Even if every- 
thing were to collapse and crumble all around you, 
you would still feel a deep inner core of peace. You 
may not be happy, but you will be at peace. 



USING AND RELINQUISHING NEGATIVITY 

All inner resistance is experienced as negativity in one 
form or another. All negativity is resistance. In this 
context, the two words are almost synonymous. 

Negativity ranges from irritation or impatience to 

106 



ACCEPTANCE of the NOW 



fierce anger, from a depressed mood or sullen resent- 
ment to suicidal despair. Sometimes the resistance trig- 
gers the emotional pain-body, in which case even a 
minor situation may produce intense negativity, such 
as anger, depression, or deep grief. 

The ego believes that through negativity it can 
manipulate reality and get what it wants. It believes 
that through it, it can attract a desirable condition or 
dissolve an undesirable one. 

If 'you" — the mind — did not believe that 
unhappiness works, why would you create it? The fact 
is, of course, that negativity does not work. Instead of 
attracting a desirable condition, it stops it from arising. 
Instead of dissolving an undesirable one, it keeps it in 
place. Its only 'useful" function is that it strengthens 
the ego, and that is why the ego loves it. 

Once you have identified with some form of nega- 
tivity, you do not want to let go, and on a deeply 
unconscious level, you do not want positive change. It 
would threaten your identity as a depressed, angry, 
or hard-done-by person. You will then ignore, deny, or 
sabotage the positive in your life. This is a common 
phenomenon. It is also insane. 

WATCH ANY PLANT OR ANIMAL AND LET IT TEACH 

YOU acceptance of what is, surrender to the Now. 
Let it teach you Being. 

107 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



Let it teach you integrity — which means 
to be one, to be yourself, to be real. 

Let it teach you how to live and how to die, 
and how not to make living and dying into a 
problem. 

Recurring negative emotions do sometimes contain a 
message, as do illnesses. But any changes that you 
make, whether they have to do with your work, your 
relationships, or your surroundings, are ultimately only 
cosmetic unless they arise out of a change in your level 
of consciousness. And as far as that is concerned, it can 
only mean one thing: becoming more present. When 
you have reached a certain degree of presence, you 
don't need negativity anymore to tell you what is 
needed in your life situation. 

But as long as negativity is there, use it. Use it as a 
kind of signal that reminds you to be more present. 

WNENEVER YOU FEEL NEGATIVITY ARISING 
WITNIN YOU, whether caused by an external fac- 
tor, a thought, or even nothing in particular 
that you are aware of, look on it as a voice say- 
ing, "Attention. Here and Now. Wake up. Get 
out of your mind. Be present." 

Even the slightest irritation is significant 
and needs to be acknowledged and looked at; 

108 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



otherwise, there will be a cumulative buildup of 
unobserved reactions. 

You may be able to just drop it once you realize that 
you don't want to have this energy field inside you and 
that it serves no purpose. But then make sure that you 
drop it completely. If you cannot drop it, just accept 
that it is there and take your attention into the feeling. 

AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO DROPPING A NEGATIVE 
REACTION, you can make it disappear by imag- 
ining yourself becoming transparent to the 
external cause of the reaction. 

I recommend that you practice this with little, even 
trivial, things first. Let's say that you are sitting quietly 
at home. Suddenly^ there is the penetrating sound of a 
car alarm from across the street. Irritation arises, What 
is the purpose of the irritation? None whatsoever. Why 
did you create it? You didn't. The mind did. It was 
totally automatic* totally unconscious. 

Why did the mind create it? Because it holds the 
unconscious belief that its resistance, which you expe- 
rience as negativity or unhappiness in some form, will 
somehow dissolve the undesirable condition. This, of 
course, is a delusion. The resistance that it creates, the 
irritation or anger in this case, is far more disturbing 

109 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF HOW 



than the original cause that it is attempting to dissolve. 
All this can be transformed into spiritual practice. 

FEEL YOURSELF BECOMING TRANSPARENT, as it 

were, without the solidity of a material body. 
Now allow the noise, or whatever causes a neg- 
ative reaction, to pass right through you. It is 
no longer bitting a solid "wall" inside you. 

As I said, practice with little things first. The car 
alarm, the dog barking, the children screaming, the 
traffic jam. Instead of having a wall of resistance inside 
you that gets constantly and painfully hit by things 
that "should not be happening," let everything pass 
through you. 

Somebody says something to you that is rude or 
designed to hurt. Instead of going into unconscious 
reaction and negativity, such as attack, defense, or 
withdrawal, you let it pass right through you. Offer no 
resistance. It is as if tbere is nobody there to get hurt 
anymore. That is forgiveness. In this way you become 
invulnerable. 

You can still tell that person that his or her behav- 
ior is unacceptable, if that is what you choose to do. 
But that person no longer has the power to control 
your inner state. You are then in your power — not in 
someone else's; nor are you run by your mind. Whether 

no 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



it is a car alarm, a rude person, a flood, an earthquake, 
or the loss of all your possessions, the resistance mech- 
anism is the same. 

You are still seeking outside, and you cannot get 
out of the seeking mode. Maybe the next workshop 
will have the answer, maybe that new technique. To 
you I would say: 

OONT LOOK FDR PEACE. Don't look for any 
other state than the one you are in now; other- 
wise, you will set up inner conflict and uncon- 
scious resistance. 

Forgive yourself for not being at peace. The 
moment you completely accept your non- 
peace, your non-peace becomes transmuted 
into peace. Anything you accept fully will get 
you there, will take you into peace. This is the 
miracle of surrender. 

When you accept what is, every moment is 
the best moment. That is enlightenment. 



THE NATURE OF COMPASSION 

NAVINS GONE BEYONO THE MIND-MADE 0PP0- 

SITES, you become like a deep lake. The outer 
situation of your life, whatever happens there, 



in 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



is the surface of the lake. Sometimes calm, some- 
times windy and rough, according to the cycles 
and seasons. Deep down, however, the lake is 
always undisturbed. You are the whole lake, not 
just the surface, and you are in touch with your 
own depth, which remains absolutely still 

You don't resist change by mentally clinging to any 
situation. Your inner peace does not depend on it. You 
abide in Being — unchanging, timeless* deathless — 
and you are no longer dependent for fulfillment or 
happiness on the outer world of constantly fluctuating 
forms. You can enjoy them, play with them, create 
new forms, appreciate the beauty of it all. But there 
will be no need to attach yourself to any of it. 

As long as you are unaware of Being, the reality of 
other humans will elude you, because you have not found 
your own. Your mind will like or dislike their form, 
which is not just their body but includes their mind as 
well. True relationship becomes possible only when there 
is an awareness of Being, 

Coming from Being, you will perceive another 
persons body and mind as just a screen, as it were, 
behind which you can feel their true reality, as you feel 
yours. So, when confronted with someone elses suf- 
fering or unconscious behavior, you stay present and 
in touch with Being and are thus able to look beyond 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE HOW 



the form and feel the other persons radiant and pure 
Being through your own. 

At the level of Being, all suffering is recognized as 
an illusion. Suffering is due to identification with form. 
Miracles of healing sometimes occur through this real- 
ization, by awakening Being-consciousness in others — 
if they are ready. 

Compassion is the awareness of a deep bond 
between yourself and all creatures. Next time you say, 
"I have nothing in common with this person," remem- 
ber that you have a great deal in common: A few years 
from now — two years or seventy years, it doesn't make 
much difference — both of you will have become rot- 
ting corpses, then piles of dust, then nothing at all. 
This is a sobering and humbling realization that leaves 
litde room for pride. 

Is this a negative thought? No, it is a fact, Why 
close your eyes to it? In that sense, there is total equal- 
ity between you and every other creature, 

ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL SPIRITUAL PRAC- 
f ICES is to meditate deeply on the mortality of 
physical forms, including your own. This is 
called; Die before you die. 

Go into it deeply. Your physical form is dis- 
solving, is no more. Then a moment comes 
when all mind-forms or thoughts also die. Yet 



113 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

you are still there — the divine presence that you 
are. Radiant, fully awake. 

Nothing that was real ever died, only 
names, forms, and illusions. 

At this deep level, compassion becomes 
healing in the widest sense. In that state, your 
healing influence is primarily based not on 
doing but on being. Evcryhody you come in 
contact with will be touched by your presence 
and affected by the peace that you emanate, 
whether they are conscious of it or not. 

When you are fully present and people around you 
manifest unconscious behavior, you won't feel the need 
to react to it, so you dont give it any reality. Your peace 
is so vast and deep that anything that is not peace dis- 
appears into it as if it had never existed. This hreaks the 
karmic cycle of action and reaction. 

Animals, trees, flowers will feel your peace and 
respond to it. You teach through being, through demon- 
strating the peace of God. 

You become the 'light of the world," an emanation 
of pure consciousness, and so you eliminate suffering 
on the level of cause. You eliminate unconsciousness 
from the world. 



114 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



THE WISOOM OF SURRENOER 

It is the quality of your consciousness at this momerg: 
that is the main determinant of what kind of future you 
will experience, so to surrender is the most important 
thing you can do to hring about positive change. Any 
action you take is secondary. No truly positive action 
can arise out of an unsurrendered state of consciousness. 

To some people, surrender may have negative con- 
notations, implying defeat, giving up, failing to rise to 
the challenges of life, becoming lethargic, and so on. 
True surrender, however, is something entirely differ- 
ent. It does not mean to passively put up with whatever 
situation you find yourself in and to do nothing about 
it. Nor does it mean to cease making plans or initiating 
positive action. 

SURRENDER IS THE SIMPLE but profound wis- 
dom of yielding to rather than opposing the flow 
of life. The only place where you can experience 
the flow of life is the Now, so to surrender is to 
accept the present moment unconditionally and 
without reservation. 

It is to relinquish inner resistance to what is. 

Inner resistance is to say "no" to what is, through 
mental judgment and emotional negativity. It becomes 
particularly pronounced when things "go wrong," 

115 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



which means that there is a gap between the demands 
or rigid expectations of your mind and what is. That is 
the pain gap. 

If you have lived long enough, you will know that 
things "go wrong" quite often. It is precisely at those 
times that surrender needs to be practiced if you want 
to eliminate pain and sorrow from your life. Acceptance 
of what is immediately frees you from mind identifica- 
tion and thus reconnects you with Being. Resistance is 
the mind. 

Surrender is a purely inner phenomenon. It does 
not mean that on the outer level you cannot take 
action and change the situation. 

In fact, it is not the overall situation that you need 
to accept when you surrender, but just the tiny seg- 
ment called the Now. For example, if you were stuck in 
the mud somewhere, you wouldn't say: "Okay, I resign 
myself to being stuck in the mud." Resignation is not 
surrender. 



YOU OONT NEED TO ACCEPT AN UNDESIRABLE 
OR UNPLEASANT LIFE SITUATION. Nor do you 

need to deceive yourself and say that there is 
nothing wrong with it. No. You recognize fully 
that you want to get out of it. You then narrow 
your attention down to the present moment 
without mentally labeling it in any way. 

116 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE HOW 

This means that there is no judgment of the 
Now. Therefore, there is no resistance, no emo- 
tional negativity. You accept the "isness" of this 
moment. 

Then you take action and do all that you 
can to get out of the situation. 

Such action I call positive action. It is far more effec- 
tive than negative action, which arises out of anger* 
despair, or frustration. Until you achieve the desired 
result, you continue to practice surrender by refraining 
from labeling the Now. 

Let me give you a visual analogy to illustrate the point 
I am making. You are walking along a path at night, 
surrounded by a thick fog. But you have a powerful 
flashlight that cuts through the fog and creates a nar- 
row, clear space in front of you. The fog is your life sit- 
uation, which includes past and future; the flashlight is 
your conscious presence; the clear space is the Now. 

Non-surrender hardens your psychological form, 
the shell of the ego, and so creates a strong sense of 
separateness. The world around you and people in 
particular come to be perceived as threatening. The 
unconscious compulsion to destroy others through 
judgment arises, as does the need to compete and 
dominate. Even nature hecomes your enemy and your 



117 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



perceptions and interpretations are governed by fear. 
The mental disease that we call paranoia is only a 
slightly more acute form of this normal but dysfunc- 
tional state of consciousness. 

Not only your psychological form but also your 
physical form — your body — becomes hard and rigid 
through resistance. Tension arises in different parts of 
the body, and the body as a whole contracts. The free 
flow of life energy through the body, which is essential 
for its healthy functioning, is greatly restricted. 

Bodywork and certain forms of physical therapy 
can be helpful in restoring this Blow, but unless you 
practice surrender in your everyday life, those things 
can only give temporary symptom relief since the cause 

— the resistance pattern — has not been dissolved. 
There is something within you that remains unaf- 

fected by the transient circumstances that make up 
your life situation and only through surrender do 
you have access to it. It is your life, your very Being 

— which exists eternally in the timeless realm of the 
present. 

IF YOU FINO YOUR LIFE SITUATION UNSATISFAC- 
TORY or even intolerable, it is only by surren- 
dering first that you can break the unconscious 
resistance pattern that perpetuates that sit- 
uation. 

118 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



Surrender is perfectly compatible with taking 
action, initiating change, or achieving goals. But in the 
surrendered state a totally different energy, a different 
quality, flows into your doing. Surrender reconnects 
you with the source-energy of Being, and if your doing 
is infused with Being, it becomes a joyful celebration of 
life energy that takes you more deeply into the Now. 

Through non resistance, the quality of your con- 
sciousness and, therefore, the quality of whatever you 
are doing or creating is enhanced immeasurably. The 
results will then look after themselves and reflect that 
quality. We could call this "surrendered action." 

IN THE STATE OF SURRENDER, you see very clearly 
what needs to be done, and you take action, 
doing one thing at a time and focusing on one 
thing at a time. 

Learn from nature: See how everything gets 
accomplished and how the miracle of life unfolds 
without dissatisfaction or unhappiness. 

That's why Jesus said: "Look at the lilies, how they 
grow; they neither toil nor spin." 

IF YOUR OVERALL SITUATION IS UNSATISFACTORY 

or unpleasant, separate out this instant and sur- 
render to what is. Thats the flashlight cutting 

119 



PRACTICING THE POWER Of NOW 

through the fog. Your state of consciousness then 
ceases to be controlled by external conditions. 
You are no longer coming from reaction and 
resistance. 

Then look at the specifics of the situation. 
Ask yourself, "Is there anything I can do to 
change the situation, improve it, or remove 
myself from it?" If so, take appropriate action. 

Focus not on the hundred things that you will or 
may have to do at some future time but on the one 
thing that you can do now. This doesnt mean you 
should not do any planning. It may well be that plan- 
ning is the one thing you can do now. But make sure 
you don't keep running "mental movies" that continu- 
ally project yourself into the future, and so lose the 
Now. Any action you take may not bear fruit immedi- 
ately. Until it does — do not resist what is, 

IF THERE IS HO ACTION YOU CAN TAKE, and you 

cannot remove yourself from the situation 
either, then use the situation to make you go 
more deeply into surrender, more deeply into 
the Now, more deeply into Being. 

When you enter this timeless dimension of the pres- 
ent, change often comes about in strange ways without 



I20 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



the need for a great deal of doing on your part. Life 
becomes helpful and cooperative. If inner factors such 
as fear, guilt, or inertia prevented you from taking 
action, they will dissolve in the light of your conscious 
presence. 

Do not confuse surrender with an attitude of "I 
can't be bothered anymore" or "I just don't care any- 
more." If you look at it closely, you will find that such 
an attitude is tainted with negativity in the form of hid- 
den resentment and so is not surrender at all but 
masked resistance. 

As you surrender, direct your attention inward to 
check if there is any trace of resistance left inside you. 
Be very alert when you do so; otherwise, a pocket of 
resistance may continue to hide in some dark corner in 
the form of a thought or an unacknowledged emotion. 



FROM MINO ENERGY TO SPIRITUAL ENERGY 

START BY ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THERE IS 
RESISTANCE. Be there when it happens, when 
the resistance arises. Observe how your mind 
creates it, how it labels the situation, yourself, 
or others. Look at the thought process 
involved. Feel the energy of the emotion. 

By witnessing the resistance, you will see 



121 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



that it serves no purpose By focusing all your 
attention on the Now, the unconscious resist- 
ance is made conscious, and that is the end of it. 

You cannot be conscious and unhappy, conscious 
and in negativity. Negativity, unhappiness, or suffering 
in whatever form means that there is resistance, and 
resistance is always unconscious, 

Would you choose unhappiness? If you did not 
choose it, how did it arise? What is its purpose? Who is 
keeping it alive? 

Even if you are conscious of your unhappy feel- 
ings, the truth is that you are identified with them and 
keep the process alive through compulsive thinking. 
All that is unconscious. If you were conscious, that is 
to say totally present in the Now, all negativity would 
dissolve almost instantly. It could not survive in your 
presence. It can only survive in your absence. 

Even the pain-body cannot survive for long in your 
presence. You keep your unhappiness alive by giving it 
time. That is its lifeblood. Remove time through 
intense present-moment awareness and it dies. But do 
you want it to die? Have you truly had enough? Who 
would you be without it? 

Until you practice surrender, the spiritual dimen- 
sion is something you read about, talk about, get excited 



122 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



about, write books about, think about, believe in — or 
don t, as the case may be. It makes no difference. 

NDT UNTIL YDU SURRENDER does the spiritual 
dimension become a living reality in your life. 

When you do, the energy that you emanate 
and that then runs your life is of a much higher 
vibrational frequency than the mind energy 
that still runs our world. 

Through surrender, spiritual energy comes 
into this world. It creates no suffering for your- 
self, for other humans, or any other life form on 
the planet. 

SURRENOER IN PERSONAL 
RELATIONSHIPS 

It is true that only an unconscious person will try to use 
or manipulate others, but it is equally true that only an 
unconscious person can be used and manipulated. If 
you resist or fight unconscious behavior in others, you 
become unconscious yourself. 

But surrender doesnt mean that you allow yourself 
to be used by unconscious people. Not at all. It is per- 
fectly possible to say "no" firmly and clearly to a person 



123 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

or to walk away from a situation and be in a state of 
complete inner nonresistance at the same time. 

WHEN YDU SAY "NO" to a person or a situation, 
let it come not from reaction but from insight, 
from a clear maiization of what is right or not 
right for you at that moment 

Let it be a nonreactive * no," a high-quality 
"no," a W that is free of all negativity and so 
creates no further suffering. 

If you cannot surrender, take action imme- 
diately: Speak up or do something to bring 
about a change in the situation — or remove 
yourself from it. Take responsibility for your life. 

Do not pollute your beautiful, radiant inner Being 
nor the Earth with negativity. Do not give imhappiness 
in any form whatsoever a dwelling place inside you. 

IF YOU CANNOT TAKE ACTION — if you are in 

prison, for example — then you have two choices 
left: resistance or surrender. Bondage or inner 
freedom from external conditions. Suffering or 
inner peace. 

Your relationships will be changed profoundly by sur- 

render. If you can never accept what is, by implication 



124 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



you will not be able to accept anybody the way they 
are. You will judge, criticize, label, reject, or attempt to 
change people. 

Furthermore, if you continuously make the Now 
into a means to an end in the future, you will also make 
every person you encounter or relate with into a means 
to an end. The relationship — the human being — is 
then of secondary importance to you, or of no impor- 
tance at all. What you can get out of the relationship is 
primary — be it material gain, a sense of power, phys- 
ical pleasure, or some form of ego gratification. 

Let me illustrate how surrender can work in rela- 
tionships. 

WHEN YOU BECOME INVOLVED IN AN ARGUMENT 

or some conflict situation, perhaps with a part- 
ner or someone close to you, start by observing 
how defensive you become as your own posi- 
tion is attacked, or feel the force of your own 
aggression as you attack the other persons 
position. 

Observe the attachment to your views and 
opinions. Feel the mental-emotional energy 
behind your need to be right and make the other 
person wrong. That's the energy of the egoic 
mind You make it conscious by acknowledging 
it, by feeling it as fully as possible. 

125 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



Then one day, in the middle of an argument, 
you will suddenly realize that you have a choice, 
and you may decide to drop your own reaction 
— just to see what happens. You surrender 

I dont mean dropping the reaction just verbally by 
saying, "Okay, you are right," with a look on your face 
that says, "I am above all this childish unconscious- 
ness." Thats just displacing the resistance to another 
level, with the egoic mind still in charge, claiming 
superiority I am speaking of letting go of the entire 
mental-emotional energy field inside you that was 
fighting for power 

The ego is cunning* so you have to be very alert, 
very present, and totally honest with yourself to sec 
whether you have truly relinquished your identification 
with a mental position and so freed yourself from your 
mind. 



IF YOU SUDDENLY FEEL VERY LIGHT, CLEAR, AND 
DEEPLY AT PEACE, that is an unmistakable sign 
that you have truly surrendered. Then observe 
what happens to the other persons mental posi- 
tion as you no longer energize it through resist- 
ance. When identification with mental positions 
is out of the way, true communication begins. 



126 



ACCEPTANCE OF THE NOW 



Nonresistance doesn't necessarily mean doing noth- 
ing. All it means is that any "doing" becomes nonreac- 
tive. Remember the deep wisdom underlying the 
practice of Eastern martial arts: Dont resist the oppo- 
nents force. Yield to overcome. 

Having said that, "doing nothing" when you are in 
a state of intense presence is a very powerful trans- 
former and healer of situations and people. 

It is radically different from inactivity in the ordi- 
nary state of consciousness, or rather unconsciousness, 
which stems from fear, inertia, or indecision. The real 
"doing nothing" implies inner nonresistance and 
intense alertness. 

On the other hand, if action is required, you will 
no longer react from your conditioned mind, but you 
will respond to the situation out of your conscious 
presence. In that state, your mind is free of concepts, 
including the concept of nonviolence. So who can pre- 
dict what you will do? 

The ego believes that in your resistance lies your 
strength, whereas in truth resistance cuts you off from 
Being* the only place of true power. Resistance is weak- 
ness and fear masquerading as strength. What the ego 
sees as weakness is your Being in its purity innocence, 
and power. What it sees as strength is weakness. So the 
ego exists in a continuous resistance mode and plays 



127 



PRACTICING the POWER OF NOW 



counterfeit roles to cover up your "weakness/' which in 
truth is your power. 

Until there is surrender, unconscious role- playing 
constitutes a large part of human interaction. In sur- 
render, you no longer need ego defenses and false 
masks. You become very simple, very real " That's dan- 
gerous," says the ego. "You'll get hurt. You'll become 
vulnerable." 

What the ego doesnt know, of course, is that only 
through the letting go of resistance, through becoming 
"vulnerable/' can you discover your true and essential 
invulnerability. 



[28 



CHAPTER NINE 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS 
and SUFFERING 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS INTO 
ENLIGHTENMENT 

Surrender is inner acceptance of what is without any 
reservations. We are talking about your life — this 
instant - — not the conditions or circumstances of your 
life, not what 1 call your life situation. 

Illness is part of your life situation* As such, it has 
a past and a future. Past and future form an uninter- 
rupted continuum, unless the redeeming power of the 
Now is activated through your conscious presence. As 
you knoWj underneath the various conditions that 
make up your life situation, which exists in time, there 



129 



PRACTICING THE POWHR OF NOW 



is something deeper, more essential: your Life* your 
very Being in the timeless Now. 

As there are no prohlems in the Now, there is no 
illness either. The belief in a label that someone 
attaches to your condition keeps the condition in 
place, empowers it, and makes a seemingly solid reality 
out of a temporary imbalance. It gives it not only real- 
ity and solidity but also continuity in time that it did 
not have before. 



BY FOCUSINS ON THIS INSTANT and refraining 
from labeling it mentally, illness is reduced to 
one or several of these factors: physical pain> 
weakness, discomfort, or disability. That is 
what you surrender to — now. You do not sur- 
render to the idea of "illness." 

Allow the suffering to force you into the 
present moment, into a state of intense con- 
scious presence. Use it for enlightenment. 

Surrender does not transform what is, at least not 
directly. Surrender transforms you. When you are trans- 
formed, your whole world is transformed, because the 
world is only a reflection. 

Illness is not the problem. You are the problem — 
as long as the egoic mind is in control. 



130 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS AND SUFFERING 

WHEN YOU ARE ILL OR DISABLED, do not feel that 
you have foiled in some way do not feel guilty 
Do not blame life for treating you unfairly but 
do not blame yourself either. All that is resistance. 

If you have a major illness, use it for 
enlightenment. Anything "bad" that happens 
in your life — use it for enlightenment. 

Withdraw time from the illness. Do not 
give it any past or future. Let it force you into 
intense present-moment awareness — and see 
what happens. 

Become an alchemist. Transmute base metal into 
gold* suffering into consciousness, disaster into enlight- 
enment. 

Are you seriously ill and feeling angry now about 
what I have just said? Then that is a clear sign that the 
illness has become part of your sense of self and that 
you are now protecting your identity — as well as pro- 
tecting the illness. 

The condition that is labeled "illness" has nothing 
to do with who you truly are. 

Whenever any kind of disaster strikes, or something 
goes seriously "wrong" — illness, disability loss of 
home or fortune or of a socially defined identity, 
breakup of a close relationship, death or suffering of a 

131 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



loved one, or your own impending death — know that 
there is another side to it, that you are just one step 
away from something incredible: a complete alchemi- 
cal transmutation of the base metal of pain and suffer- 
ing into gold That one step is called surrender. 

I do not mean to say that you will become happy 
in such a situation. You will not. But fear and pain will 
become transmuted into an inner peace and serenity 
tbat come from a very deep place — from the 
Unmanifested itself It is "the peace of God, which 
passes all understanding/' Compared to that, happi- 
ness is quite a shallow thing. 

With this radiant peace comes the realization — 
not on tbe level of mind but within the depth of your 
Being — that you are indestructible, immortal. This is 
not a belief It is absolute certainty that needs no exter- 
nal evidence or proof from some secondary source. 



TRANSFORMING SUFFERING INTO PEACE 

In certain extreme situations, it may still be impossible 
for you to accept the Now. But you always get a second 
chance at surrender. 

YOUR FIRST CHANCE IS TO SURRENDER each 
moment to the reality of that moment. Knowing 

132 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS AND SUFFERING 

that what is cannot be undone — because it 
already is — you say yes to what is or accept what 
isnt. 

Then you do what you have to do, what- 
ever the situation requires. 

If you abide in this state of acceptance, you 
create no more negativity, no more suffering, 
no more unhappiness. You then live in a state of 
nonresistance, a state of grace and lightness, 
free of struck. 

Whenever you are unable to do that* whenever you 
miss that chance — either because you are not gener- 
ating enough conscious presence to prevent some 
habitual and unconscious resistance pattern from aris- 
ing, or because the condition is so extreme as to be 
absolutely unacceptable to you — then you are creat- 
ing some form of pain, some form of suffering. 

It may look as if the situation is creating the suffer- 
ing, but ultimately this is not so — your resistance is. 

NOW HERE IS YOUR SECONO CHANCE AT SUR- 
RENDER; If you cannot accept what is outside, 
then accept what is inside. If you cannot accept 
the external condition, accept the internal con- 
dition. 

This means: Do not resist the pain. Allow 



133 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



it to be there. Surrender to the grief* despair, 
fear, loneliness, or whatever form the suffering 
takes. Witness it without labeling it mentally: 
Embrace it- 
Then see how the miracle of surrender 
transmutes deep suffering into deep peace. This 
is your crucifixion. Let it become your resur- 
rection and ascension. 



When your pain is deep, all talk of surrender will prob- 
ably seem futile and meaningless anyway When your 
pain is deep, you will likely have a strong urge to escape 
from it rather than surrender to it. You don't want to 
feel what you feel. What could be more normal? But 
there is no escape* no way out. 

There are many pseudo escapes — work, drink, 
drugs, anger, projection, suppression, and so on — but 
they don't free you from the pain. Suffering does not 
diminish in intensity when you make it unconscious. 
When you deny emotional pain, everything you do or 
think as well as your relationships become contami- 
nated with it. You broadcast it, so to speak, as the 
energy you emanate, and others will pick it up sublim- 
inally. 

If they are unconscious, they may even feel com- 
pelled to attack or hurt you in some way, or you may 
hurt them in an unconscious projection of your pain. 



134 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS and SUFFERING 



You attract and manifest whatever corresponds to your 
inner state. 

WHEN THERE IS NO WAY OUT, THERE IS STILL 
ALWAYS A WAY THROUGH, So don't turn away 
from the pain. Face it. Feel it fully. Feel it — 
dont think about it! Express it if necessary but 
don't create a script in your mind around it. 
Give all your attention to the feeling, not to the 
person, event, or situation that seems to have 
caused it. 

Dont let the mind use the pain to create a 
victim identity for yourself out of it. Feeling 
sorry for yourself and telling others your story 
will keep you stuck in suffering. 

Since it is impossible to get away from the 
feeling* the only possibility of change is to 
move into it; otherwise, nothing will shift. 

So give your complete attention to what 
you feel, and refrain from mentally labeling it. 
As you go into the feeling, be intensely alert. 

At first, it may seem like a dark and terrify- 
ing place, and when the urge to turn away from 
it comes* observe it but dont act on it. Keep 
putting your attention on the pain, keep feeling 
the grief, the fear, the dread, the loneliness, 
whatever it is. 



*35 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



Stay alert, stay present — present with 
your whole Being, with every cell of your 
body. As you do so, you are bringing a light 
into this darkness. This is the flame of your 
consciousness. 



At this stage, you don t need to be concerned with 
surrender anymore. It has happened already. How? Full 
attention is full acceptance, is surrender. By giving 
full attention, you use the power of the Now, which is 
the power of your presence. 

No hidden pocket of resistance can survive in it. 
Presence removes time. Without time, no suffering, no 
negativity, can survive. 



THE ACCEPTANCE OF SUFFERING is a journey 
into death. Facing deep pain, allowing it to be, 
taking your attention into it, is to enter death 
consciously. When you have died this death, 
you realize that there is no death — and there 
is nothing to fear. Only the ego dies. 

Imagine a ray of sunlight that has forgotten it is an 
inseparable part of the sun and deludes itself into 
believing it has to fight for survival and create and cling 
to an identity other than the sun. Would the death of 
this delusion not be incredibly liberating? 



136 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS AND SUFFERING 



DO YOU WANT AN EASY DEATH? Would you 
rather die without pain, without agony? Then 
die to the past every moment, and let the light 
of your presence shine away the heavy time- 
bound self you thought of as "you." 



THE WAY OF THE CROSS - 
ENLIGHTENMENT THROUGH SUFFERING 

The way of the cross is the old way to enlightenment, 
and until recently it was the only way. But don t dismiss 
it or underestimate its efficacy. It still works. 

The way of the cross is a complete reversal. It 
means that the worst thing in your life, your cross, 
turns into the best thing that ever happened to you> by 
forcing you into surrender, into "death, * forcing you to 
become as nothing, to become as God — because God, 
too, is no-thing. 

Enlightenment through suffering — the way of the 
cross — means to be forced into the kingdom of 
heaven kicking and screaming. You finally surrender 
because you cant stand the pain anymore, hut the pain 
could go on for a long time until this happens. 

ENLIGHTENMENT CONSCIOUSLY CHOSEN means 
to relinquish your attachment to past and future 



*37 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



and to make the Now the main focus of your 
life. 

It means choosing to dwell in the state of 
presence rather than in time. 
It means saying yes to what is. 
You then don't need pain anymore. 

How much more time do you think you will need 
before you are able to say, tf l will create no more pain, 
no more suffering?" How much more pain do you need 
before you can make that choice? 

If you think that you need more time, you will get 
more time — and more pain. Time and pain are insep- 
arable. 



THE POWER TO CHOOSE 

Choice implies consciousness — a high degree of con- 
sciousness. Without it, you have no choice. Choice 
begins the moment you disidentify from the mind and 
its conditioned patterns, the moment you become 
present. 

Until you reach that point, you are unconscious, 
spiritually speaking. This means that you are com- 
pelled to think, feel, and act in certain ways according 
to the conditioning of your mind. 

138 



TRANSFORMING ILLNESS and SUFFERING 



Nobody chooses dysfunction, conflict, pain. 
Nobody chooses insanity. They happen because there is 
not enough presence in you to dissolve the past, not 
enough light to dispel the darkness. You are not fully 
here. You have not quite woken up yet. In the mean- 
time, the conditioned mind is running your life. 

Similarly, if you are one of the many people who 
have an issue with their parents, if you still harbor 
resentment about something they did or did not do, 
then you still believe that they had a choice — that 
they could have acted differendy. It always looks as 
if people had a choice, but that is an illusion. As long 
as your mind with its conditioned patterns runs your 
life, as long as you are your mind, what choice do 
you have? None. You are not even there. The mind- 
identified state is severely dysfunctional. It is a form of 
insanity. 

Almost everyone is suffering from this illness in 
varying degrees. The moment you realize this, there can 
be no more resentment. How can you resent someone's 
illness? The only appropriate response is compassion. 

If you are run by your mind, although you have no 
choice you will still suffer the consequences of your 
unconsciousness, and you will create further suffering. 
You will bear the burden of fear, conflict, problems, 
and pain. The suffering thus created will eventually 
force you out of your unconscious state. 



*39 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 

YOU CAN NOT TRULY FORGIVE YOURSELF or others 
as long as you derive your sense of self from 
the past. Only through accessing the power of 
the Now, which is your own power, can there 
be true forgiveness. This renders the past pow- 
erless, and you realize deeply that nothing you 
ever did or that was ever done to you could 
touch even In the slightest the radiant essence 
of who you ate. 

When you surrender to what is and so 
become fully present, the past ceases to have 
any power. You do not need it anymore. 
Presence is the key. The Now is the key, 

Since resistance is inseparable from the mind, relin- 
quishment of resistance — surrender — is the end of 
the mind as your master, the impostor pretending to be 
"you/ 5 the false god. All judgment and all negativity 
dissolve. 

The realm of Being, which had been obscured by 
the mind, then opens up. 

Suddenly, a great stillness arises within you, an 
unfathomable sense of peace. 

And within that peace, there is great joy. 

And within that joy, there is love. 

And at the innermost core, there is the sacred, die 
immeasurable, That which cannot be named. 

i,|0 



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 



1 am grateful to Victoria Ritchie, Connie Kellough, 
Marc Allen and the staff at New World Library for their 
support and superb editing of this book. 

My special thanks to all those individuals who 
helped promote and support The Power of Now in its early 
stages, Only some them are mentioned here* Cathy 
Bordi, Marina Borusso, Randall Bradley Ginna Bell- 
Bragg, Tommy Chan, Greg Clifford, Steve Coe, Barbara 
Dempsey Kim Eng, Doug France, Joyce Franzee, Rem! 
F rum kjn, Wilma Fuchs, Stephen Gawtry, Pat Gordon, 
Matthew and Joan Green blatt, Jane Griffith, Surati 
Haarbrucker, Marilyn Knipp, Nora Morin, Karen 
McPhee, Sandy Neufeld, Jim Nowak, Carey Pardee 

141 



PRACTICING THE POWER OF NOW 



Carmen Priolo, Usha Raetze, Joseph Roberts, Steve 
Ross, Sarah Runyen, Nikki Sachdeva, Spar Street, 
Marshall and Barbara Thurber, Brock Tully. 

I would like to express my love and gratitude to the 
owners and staff of the many privately owned book- 
stores that have been instrumental in getting The Power 
of Now out into the world. You are doing wonderful 
work! My special thanks go to: 

Banyen Books, Vancouver, BC 
East- West Bookshop, Seattle, WA 
East- West Bookshop, Mountain View, CA 
Greenhouse Books, Vancouver, BC 
Heaven on Earth Book Store, Encimtas, CA 
New Age Books &C Crystals, Calgary, AB 
Open Secret Book Store, San Rafael, CA 
Thunderbird Book Store, Carmel, CA 
Transitions Bookplace, Chicago, IL 
Watkins Bookshop, London, UK 



142 



RECOMMENDED RESOURCES 



The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle (New World Library, 
1999). Already on its way to becoming classic. The 
complete book is also on audio. 

The Power of Now Companion Audio by Eckhart Tolle 
(Namaste Publishing, 2000). See their website: 
www.namastepublishing.com. 

Freeing Yourself from Your Identification with Your Mind A 
video by Eckhart Tolle (Namaste Publishing, 2001). 

As You Think by James Allen (New World Library, 
1998). A classic work on transformation. 

The Bhagavad Gita: A Walkthrough for Westerners by Jack 
Hawley (New World Library, 2001). The world classic of 
spirituality, as powerful and modern as The Power of Now. 

Creative Visualization by Shakri Gawain (New World 
Library, Revised edition, 1995). Another classic that has 
shown millions bow to improve their lives and the world. 
