Once in a time long forgotten, I, Thoth,
opened the doorway, penetrated into other spaces
and learned of the secrets concealed.
Deep in the essence of matter are many mysteries concealed.
Nine are the interlocked dimensions,
and Nine are the cycles of space.
Nine are the diffusions of consciousness,
and Nine are the worlds within worlds.
Aye, Nine are the Lords and the cycles
that come from above and below.
Space is filled with concealed ones,
for space is divided by time.
Seek ye the key to the time-space,
and ye shall unlock the gate.
Know ye that throughout the time-space
consciousness surely exists.
Though from our knowledge it is hidden,
yet still it forever exists.
The key to worlds within thee
are found only within.
For man is the gateway of mystery
and the key that is One within One.
Seek ye within the circle.
Use the Word I shall give.
Open the gateway within thee,
and sure thou, too, shalt live.
Man, ye think that ye liveth,
but know it is life within death.
For as sure as ye are bound to your body,
for you no life exists.
Only the Soul is space-free,
has life that is really a life.
All else is only a bondage,
a fetter from which to be free.
Think not that man is earth-born,
though come from the earth he may be.
Man is a light-born spirit.
But, without knowing, he can never be free.
Darkness fetters the Soul.
Only the one who is seeking may ever hope to be free.
Shadows around thee are falling.
Darkness fills all the spaces.
Shine forth, O Light of the man-soul.
Fill thou the darkness of space.
Ye are a Sun of the Great Light.
Remember and ye shall be free.
Stay not thou in the shadows.
Spring forth from the darkness of night.
Light, let thy Soul be, O Sun-Born,
filled with glory of Light,
freed from the bonds of darkness,
a Soul that is One with the Light.
Thou art the key to all wisdom.
Within thee is all time and space.
Live not in bondage to darkness.
Free thou thy Light-form from night.
"Great Light that fills all the Cosmos,
flow thou fully to man.
Make of his body a light-torch
that shall never be quenched among men."
Long in the past, sought I wisdom,
knowledge not known to man.
Far to the past I traveled
into the space where time began.
Sought I ever new knowledge
to add to the wisdom I know.
Yet only, I found, did the future
hold the key to the wisdom I sought.
Down to the Halls of Amenti I journeyed,
the greater knowledge to seek.
Asked of the Lords of the Cycles,
the way to the wisdom I sought.
Asked the Lords this question:
"Where is the source of ALL?"
Answered, in tones that were mighty,
the voice of the Lord of the Nine:
"Free thou thy Soul from thy body
and come forth with me to the Light."
Forth I came from my body,
a glittering flame in the night.
Stood I before the Lords,
bathed in the fire of Life.
Seized was I then by a force,
great beyond knowledge of man.
Cast was I to the Abyss
through spaces unknown to man.
Saw I moulding of Order
from the chaos and angles of night.
Saw I the Light spring from Order
and heard the voice of the Light.
Saw I the flame of the Abyss,
casting forth Order and Light.
Saw Order spring out of chaos.
Saw Light giving forth Life.
Then heard I the voice:
"Hear thou and understand.
The flame is the source of all things,
containing all things in potentiality.
The Order that sent forth light
is the Word and from the Word comes Life
and the existence of all."
And again spoke the voice saying:
"The Life in thee is the Word.
Find thou the Life within thee,
and have powers to use of the Word."
Long I watched the Light-flame,
pouring forth from the Essence of Fire,
realizing that Life is but Order
and that man is one with the fire.
Back I came to my body.
Stood again with the Nine,
listened to the voice of the Cycles,
vibrate with powers they spoke:
"Know ye, O Thoth, that Life is but the Word of the Fire.
The Life force ye seek before thee
is but the Word in the World as a fire.
Seek ye the path to the Word
and powers shall surely be thine."
Then asked I of the Nine:
"O Lord, show me the path.
Give me the path to the wisdom.
Show me the way to the Word."
Answered me then, the Lord of the Nine:
"Through Order, ye shall find the way.
Saw ye not that the Word came from Chaos?
Saw ye not that Light came from Fire?
Look in thy life for disorder.
Balance and order thy life.
Quell all the Chaos of emotions
and thou shalt have order in Life.
Order brought forth from Chaos
will bring thee the Word of the Source,
will give thee the power of Cycles,
and make of thy Soul a force that free
will extend through the ages,
a perfected Sun from the Source."
Listened I to the voice
and deep sank the words in my heart.
For ever have I sought for order
that I might draw on the word.
Know ye that he who attains it
must ever in Order be.
For use of the Word through disorder
has never and can never be.
Take ye these words, O man.
As part of thy life, let them be.
Seek thee to conquer disorder,
and One with the Word thou shalt be.
Put forth thy effort in gaining Light
on the pathway of Life.
Seek to be One with the Sun-State.
Seek to be solely the Light.
Hold thou thy thought on the Oneness of Light
with the body of man.
Know that all is Order from Chaos
born into Light.
List ye, O man. Take of my wisdom.
Learn of the deep hidden mysteries of space.
Learn of the Thought that grew in the abyss,
bringing Order and Harmony in space.
Know ye, O man, that all that exists
has being only because of the Law.
Know ye the Law and ye shall be free,
never be bound by the fetters of night.
Far, through strange spaces, have I journeyed
into the depth of the abyss of time,
learning strange and yet stranger mysteries,
until in the end all was revealed.
Know ye that mystery is only mystery
when it is knowledge unknown to man.
When you have plumbed the heart of all mystery,
knowledge and wisdom will surely be thine.
Seek ye and learn that Time is the secret
whereby ye may be free of this space.
Long have I, Thoth, sought wisdom;
aye, and shall seek to eternity's end
for know I that ever before receding
shall move the goal I seek to attain.
Even the Lords of the Cycles know
that not yet have They reached the goal,
for with all of their wisdom, they
know that Truth ever grows.
Once, in a past time, I spoke to the Dweller.
Asked of the mystery of time and space.
Asked him the question that surged in my being, saying:
"O Master, what is time?"
Then to me spoke He, the Master:
"Know ye, O Thoth, in the beginning there was
void and nothingness: a timeless, spaceless, nothingness.
And into the nothingness came a thought,
purposeful, all-pervading, and It filled the Void.
There existed no matter, only force,
a movement, a vortex of vibration
of the purposeful thought that filled the Void."
And I questioned the Master, saying:
"Was this thought eternal?"
And answered me the Dweller, saying:
"In the beginning, there was eternal thought,
and for thought to be eternal, time must exist.
So into the all-pervading thought
grew the Law of Time. Aye,
time which exists through all space,
floating in a smooth, rhythmic movement
that is eternally in a state of fixation.
Time changes not, but all things change in time.
For time is the force that holds events separate,
each in its proper place. Time is not in motion,
but ye move through time as your consciousness
moves from one event to another. Aye,
by time ye exist, all in all, an eternal One existence.
Know ye that even though in time ye
are separate, yet still are One in all times existent."
Ceased then the voice of the Dweller,
and departed I to ponder on time.
For knew I that in these words lay wisdom
and a way to explore the mysteries of time.
Oft did I ponder the words of the Dweller.
Then sought I to solve the mystery of time.
Found I that time moves through strange angles.
Yet only by curves could I hope
to attain the key that would give me access to the time-space.
Found I that only by moving upward
and yet again by moving to right-ward
could I be free from the time of this movement.
Forth I came from out of my body,
moved in the movements that changed me in time.
Strange were the sights I saw in my journeys,
many the mysteries that opened to view.
Aye, saw I man's beginning,
learned from the past that nothing is new.
Seek ye, O man, to learn the pathway
that leads through the spaces
that are formed forth in time.
Forget not, O man, with all of thy seeking
that Light is the goal ye shall seek to attain.
Search ye ever for Light on thy pathway
and ever for thee the goal shall endure.
Let not thine heart turn ever to darkness.
Light let thine Soul be, a sun on the way.
Know ye that in the eternal brightness,
ye shall ever find thy Soul hid in the Light,
never fettered by bondage to darkness,
ever it shines forth a Sun of the Light.
Aye, know, though hidden in darkness,
your Soul, a spark of the true flame, exists.
Be ye One with the greatest of all Lights.
Find at the Source, the End of thy goal.
Light is life, for without the great Light
nothing can ever exist.
Know ye, that in all formed matter,
the heart of Light always exists.
Aye, even though bound in the darkness,
inherent Light always exists.
Once I stood in the Halls of Amenti
and heard the voice of the Lords of Amenti,
saying in tones that rang through the silence,
words of power, mighty and potent.
Chanted they the song of the cycles,
the words that opened the path to beyond.
Aye, I saw the great path opened
and looked for an instant into the beyond.
Saw I the movements of the cycles,
vast as the thought of the Source could convey.
Knew I then that even Infinity
is moving on to some unthinkable end.
Saw I that the Cosmos is Order
and part of a movement that extends to all space,
a part of an Order of Orders,
constantly moving in a harmony of space.
Saw I the wheeling of cycles
like vast circles across the sky.
Knew I then that all that has being
is growing to meet yet other being
in a far-off grouping of space and of time.
Knew I then that in Words are power
to open the planes that are hidden from man.
Aye, that even in Words lies hidden
the key that will open above and below.
Hark ye now, man, this word I leave with thee.
Use it and ye shall find power in its sound.
Say ye, the word: "Zin-Uru"
and power ye shall find.
Yet must ye understand
that man is of Light and Light is of man.
List ye, O man, and hear a mystery
stranger than all that lies 'neath the Sun.
Know ye, O man, that all space
is filled by worlds within worlds;
aye, one within the other
yet separate by Law.
Once in my search for deep buried wisdom,
I opened the door that bars Them from man.
Called I from other planes of being,
one who was fairer than the daughters of men.
Aye, I called her from out of the spaces
to shine as a Light in the world of men.
Used I the drum of the Serpent.
Wore I the robe of the purple and gold.
Placed on my head, I, the crown of Silver.
Around me the circle of cinnabar shone.
Raised I my arms and cried the invocation
that opens the path to the planes beyond,
cried to the Lords of the Signs in their houses:
"Lords of the two horizons, watchers of the treble gates,
stand ye One at the right and One at the left
as the Star rises to his throne and rules over his sign.
Aye, thou dark prince of Arulu,
open the gates of the dim, hidden land
and release her whom ye keep imprisoned.
Hear ye, hear ye, hear ye,
dark Lords and Shining Ones,
and by their secret names,
names which I know and can pronounce,
hear ye and obey my will."
Lit I then with flame my circle
and called Her in the space-planes beyond.
"Daughter of Light return from Arulu.
Seven times and seven times have I passed through the fire.
Food have I not eaten. Water have I not drunk.
I call thee from Arulu,
from the realm of Ekershegal,
I summon thee, Lady of Light."
Then before me rose the dark figures;
aye, the figures of the Lords of Arulu.
Parted they before me and forth came the Lady of Light.
Free was she now from the Lords of the night,
free to live in the Light of the earth Sun,
free to live as a child of Light.
Hear ye and listen, O my children.
Magic is knowledge and only is Law.
Be not afraid of the power within thee
for it follows Law as the stars in the sky.
Know ye that to he without knowledge,
wisdom is magic and not of the Law.
But know ye that ever ye by your knowledge
can approach closer to a place in the Sun.
List ye, my children, follow my teaching.
Be ye ever seeker of Light.
Shine in the world of men all around thee,
a Light on the path that shall shine among men.
Follow ye and learn of my magic.
Know that all force is thine if thou wilt.
Fear not the path that leads thee to knowledge,
but rather shun ye the dark road.
Light is thine, O man, for the taking.
Cast off the fetters and thou shalt be free.
Know ye that thy Soul is living in bondage
fettered by fear that holds ye in thrall.
Open thy eyes and see the great Sun-Light.
Be not afraid for all is thine own.
Fear is the Lord of dark Arulu
to he who has never faced the dark fear.
Aye, know that fear has existence
created by those who are bound by their fears.
Shake off thy bondage, O children,
and walk in the Light of the glorious day.
Never turn thy thoughts to the darkness
and surely ye shall be One with the Light.
Man is only what he believeth,
a brother of darkness or a child of the Light.
Come thou into the Light my Children.
Walk in the pathway that leads to the Sun.
Hark ye now and list to the wisdom.
Use thou the word I have given unto thee.
Use it and surely thou shalt find power
and wisdom and Light to walk in the way.
Seek thee and find the key I have given
and ever shalt thou be a Child of the Light.