Unto thee, O man, have I given my knowledge.
Unto thee have I given of Light.
Hear ye now and receive my wisdom
brought from space planes above and beyond.
Not as man am I for free have I become
of dimensions and planes.
In each, take I on a new body.
In each, I change in my form.
Know I now that the formless
is all there is of form.
Great is the wisdom of the Seven.
Mighty are they from beyond.
Manifest They through their power,
filled by force from beyond.
Hear ye these words of wisdom.
Hear ye and make them thine own.
Find in them the formless.
Find ye the key to beyond.
Mystery is but hidden knowledge.
Know and ye shall unveil.
Find the deep buried wisdom
and be master of darkness and Light.
Deep are the mysteries around thee,
hidden the secrets of Old.
Search through the Keys of my Wisdom.
Surely shall ye find the way.
The gateway to power is secret,
but he who attains shall receive.
Look to the Light! O my brother.
Open and ye shall receive.
Press on through the valley of darkness.
Overcome the dweller of the night.
Keep ever thine eyes to the Light-Plane,
and thou shalt be One with the Light.
Man is in process of changing
to forms that are not of this world.
Grows he in time to the formless,
a plane on the cycle above.
Know ye, ye must become formless
before ye are one with the Light.
List ye, O man, to my voice,
telling of the pathways to Light,
showing the way of attainment
when ye shall be One with the Light.
Search ye the mysteries of Earth's heart.
Learn of the Law that exists,
holding the stars in their balance
by the force of the primordial mist.
Seek ye the flame of the Earth's Life.
Bathe in the glare of its flame.
Follow the three-cornered pathway
until thou, too, art a flame.
Speak thou in words without voice
to those who dwell down below.
Enter the blue-litten Temple
and bathe in the fire of all life.
Know, O man, thou art complex,
a being of earth and of fire.
Let thy flame shine out brightly.
Be thou only the fire.
Wisdom is hidden in darkness.
When lit by the flame of the Soul,
find thou the wisdom and be Light-Born,
a Sun of the Light without form.
Seek thee ever more wisdom.
Find it in the heart of the flame.
Know that only by striving
can Light pour into thy brain.
Now have I spoken with wisdom.
List to my Voice and obey.
Tear open the Veils of the darkness.
Shine a Light on the Way.
Speak I of Ancient Atlantis,
speak of the days of the Kingdom of Shadows,
speak of the coming of the children of shadows.
Out of the great deep were they called
by the wisdom of earth-men,
called for the purpose of gaining great power.
Far in the past before Atlantis existed,
men there were who delved into darkness,
using dark magic, calling up beings
from the great deep below us.
Forth came they into this cycle.
Formless were they of another vibration,
existing unseen by the children of earth-men.
Only through blood could they have formed being.
Only through man could they live in the world.
In ages past were they conquered by the Masters,
driven below to the place whence they came.
But some there were who remained,
hidden in spaces and planes unknown to man.
Lived they in Atlantis as shadows,
but at times they appeared among men.
Aye, when the blood was offered,
forth came they to dwell among men.
In the form of man moved they amongst us,
but only to sight were they as are men.
Serpent-headed when the glamour was lifted
but appearing to man as men among men.
Crept they into the Councils,
taking forms that were like unto men.
Slaying by their arts the chiefs of the kingdoms,
taking their form and ruling o'er man.
Only by magic could they be discovered.
Only by sound could their faces be seen.
Sought they from the kingdom of shadows
to destroy man and rule in his place.
But, know ye, the Masters were mighty in magic,
able to lift the Veil from the face of the serpent,
able to send him back to his place.
Came they to man and taught him the secret,
the Word that only a man can pronounce.
Swift then they lifted the Veil from the serpent
and cast him forth from place among men.
Yet, beware, the serpent still liveth
in a place that is open at times to the world.
Unseen they walk among thee
in places where the rites have been said.
Again as time passes onward
shall they take the semblance of men.
Called may they be by the master
who knows the white or the black,
but only the white master may control
and bind them while in the flesh.
Seek not the kingdom of shadows,
for evil will surely appear.
For only the master of brightness
shall conquer the shadow of fear.
Know ye, O my brother,
that fear is an obstacle great.
Be master of all in the brightness,
the shadow will soon disappear.
Hear ye and heed my wisdom,
the voice of Light is clear.
Seek not the valley of shadow,
and Light only will appear.
List ye, O man, to the depth of my wisdom.
Speak I of knowledge hidden from man.
Far have I been on my journey through Space-Time,
even to the end of the space of this cycle.
Found I there the great barrier,
holding man from leaving this cycle.
Aye, glimpsed the Hounds of the Barrier,
laying in wait for he who would pass them.
In that space where time exists not,
faintly I sensed the guardians of cycles.
Move they only through angles.
Free are they not of the curved dimensions.
Strange and terrible are the Hounds of the Barrier.
Follow they consciousness to the limits of space.
Think not to escape by entering your body,
for follow they fast the Soul through angles.
Only the circle will give ye protection,
safe from the claws of the Dweller in Angles.
Once, in a time past, I approached the great Barrier,
and saw on the shores where time exists not,
the formless forms of the Hounds of the Barrier.
Aye, hiding in the mist beyond time I found them;
and They, scenting me afar off,
raised themselves and gave the great bell cry
that can be heard from cycle to cycle
and moved through space toward my Soul.
Fled I then fast before them,
back from time's unthinkable end.
But ever after me pursued they,
moving in strange angles not known to man.
Aye, on the gray shore of Time-Space's end
found I the Hounds of the Barrier,
ravening for the Soul who attempts the beyond.
Fled I through circles back to my body.
Fled, and fast after me they followed.
Aye, after me the devourers followed,
seeking through angles to devour my Soul.