Aye, know ye man, that the Soul who dares the Barrier
may be held in bondage by the Hounds from beyond time,
held till this cycle is all completed and left behind
when the consciousness leaves.
Entered I my body.
Created the circles that know not angles,
created the form that from my form was formed.
Made my body into a circle and lost the pursuers
in the circles of time.
But, even yet, when free from my body,
cautious ever must I be not to move through angles,
else my Soul might never be free.
Know ye, the Hounds of the Barrier
move only through angles and never through curves of space.
Only by moving through curves can ye escape them,
for in angles they will pursue thee.
O man, heed ye my warning;
Seek not to break open the gate to beyond.
Few there are who have succeeded
in passing the Barrier to the greater Light that shines beyond.
For know ye, ever the dwellers, seek such Souls to hold in their thrall.
Listen, O man, and heed ye my warning;
seek ye to move not in angles but curves.
And if while free from thy body, thou hearest
the sound like the bay of a hound
ringing clear and bell-like through thy being,
flee back to thy body through circles,
penetrate not the mist before.
When thou hast entered the form thou hast dwelt in,
use thou the cross and the circle combined.
Open thy mouth and use thou thy Voice.
Utter the Word and thou shalt be free.
Only the one who of Light has the fullest
can hope to pass by the guards of the way.
And then must he move through strange curves and angles
that are formed in direction not known to man.
List ye, O man, and heed ye my warning:
attempt not to pass the guards in the way.
Rather should ye seek to gain of thine own Light
and make thyself ready to pass on the way.
Light is thine ultimate end, O my brother.
Seek and find ever the Light on thy way.
List ye, O man, hear ye my voice,
teaching of Wisdom and Light in this cycle;
teaching ye how to banish the darkness,
teaching ye how to bring Light in thy life.
Seek ye, O man, to find the great pathway
that leads to eternal Life as a Sun.
Draw ye away from the veil of the darkness.
Seek to become a Light in the world.
Make of thyself a vessel for Light,
a focus for the Sun of this space.
Lift thou thine eyes to the Cosmos.
Lift thou thine eyes to the Light.
Speak in the words of the Dweller,
the chant that calls down the Light.
Sing thou the song of freedom.
Sing thou the song of the Soul.
Create the high vibration
that will make thee One with the Whole.
Blend all thyself with the Cosmos.
Grow into One with the Light.
Be thou a channel of order,
a pathway of Law to the world.
Thy Light, O man, is the great Light,
shining through the shadow of flesh.
Free must thou rise from the darkness
before thou art One with the Light.
Shadows of darkness surround thee.
Life fills thee with its flow.
But know, O man,
thou must arise and forth from thy body
go far to the planes that surround thee
and yet are One with thee, too.
Look all around thee, O man.
See thine own light reflected.
Aye, even in the darkness around thee,
thine own Light pours forth through the veil.
Seek thou for wisdom always.
Let not thine body betray.
Keep in the path of the Light wave.
Shun thou the darkened way.
Know thee that wisdom is lasting,
existing since the All-Soul began,
creating harmony from chaos
by the Law that exists in the Way.
List ye, O man, to the teaching of wisdom.
List to the voice that speaks of the past-time.
Aye, I shall tell thee knowledge forgotten,
tell ye of wisdom hidden in past-time,
lost in the mist of darkness around me.
Know ye, man, ye are the ultimate of all things.
Only the knowledge of this is forgotten,
lost when man was cast into bondage,
bound and fettered by the chains of the darkness.
Long, long ago, I cast off my body.
Wandered I free through the vastness of ether,
circled the angles that hold man in bondage.
Know ye, O man, ye are only a spirit.
The body is nothing. The Soul is All.
Let not your body be a fetter.
Cast off the darkness and travel in Light.
Cast off your body, O man, and be free,
truly a Light that is One with the Light.
When ye are free from the fetters of darkness
and travel in space as a Sun of the Light,
then ye shall know that space is not boundless
but truly bounded by angles and curves.
Know ye, O man, that all that exists
is only an aspect of greater things yet to come.
Matter is fluid and flows like a stream,
constantly changing from one thing to another.
All through the ages has knowledge existed;
never been changed, though buried in darkness;
never been lost, though forgotten by man.
Know ye that throughout the space that ye dwell in
are others as great as your own,
interlaced through the heart of your matter
yet separate in space of their own.